When Millicent Moore and Worth Gordon met each other on the first day of the term in the entrance hall of the Kinglake High School , both girls stopped short , startled .
Millicent Moore had never seen Worth Gordon before , but Worth Gordon's face she had seen every day of her life , looking at her out of her own mirror !
They were total strangers , but when two girls look enough alike to be twins , it is not necessary to stand on ceremony .
After the first blank stare of amazement , both laughed outright .
Millicent held out her hand .
`` We ought to know each other right away , '' she said frankly .
`` My name is Millicent Moore , and yours is -- ? ''
`` Worth Gordon , '' responded Worth , taking the proffered hand with dancing eyes .
`` You actually frightened me when you came around that corner .
For a moment I had an uncanny feeling that I was a disembodied spirit looking at my own outward shape .
I know now what it feels like to have a twin . ''
`` Isn't it odd that we should look so much alike ? ''
said Millicent .
`` Do you suppose we can be any relation ?
I never heard of any relations named Gordon . ''
Worth shook her head .
`` I 'm quite sure we 're not , '' she said .
`` I haven't any relatives except my father's stepsister with whom I've lived ever since the death of my parents when I was a baby . ''
`` Well , you'll really have to count me as a relative after this , '' laughed Millicent .
`` I 'm sure a girl who looks as much like you as I do must be at least as much relation as a stepaunt . ''
From that moment they were firm friends , and their friendship was still further cemented by the fact that Worth found it necessary to change her boarding-house and became Millicent's roommate .
Their odd likeness was the wonder of the school and occasioned no end of amusing mistakes , for all the students found it hard to distinguish between them .
Seen apart it was impossible to tell which was which except by their clothes and style of hairdressing .
Seen together there were , of course , many minor differences which served to distinguish them .
Both girls were slight , with dark-brown hair , blue eyes and fair complexions .
But Millicent had more colour than Worth .
Even in repose , Millicent's face expressed mirth and fun ; when Worth was not laughing or talking , her face was rather serious .
Worth's eyes were darker , and her nose in profile slightly more aquiline .
But still , the resemblance between them was very striking .
In disposition they were also very similar .
Both were merry , fun-loving girls , fond of larks and jokes .
Millicent was the more heedless , but both were impulsive and too apt to do or say anything that came into their heads without counting the cost .
One late October evening Millicent came in , her cheeks crimson after her walk in the keen autumn air , and tossed two letters on the study table .
`` It's a perfect evening , Worth .
We had the jolliest tramp .
You should have come with us instead of staying in moping over your books . ''
Worth smiled ruefully .
`` I simply had to prepare those problems for tomorrow , '' she said .
`` You see , Millie dear , there is a big difference between us in some things at least .
I 'm poor .
I simply have to pass my exams and get a teacher's licence .
So I can't afford to take any chances .
You 're just attending high school for the sake of education alone , so you don't really have to grind as I do . ''
`` I 'd like to do pretty well in the exams , though , for Dad's sake , '' answered Millicent , throwing aside her wraps .
`` But I don't mean to kill myself studying , just the same .
Time enough for that when exams draw nigh .
They 're comfortably far off yet .
But I 'm in a bit of a predicament , Worth , and I don't know what to do .
Here are two invitations for Saturday afternoon and I simply must accept them both .
Now , how can I do it ?
You 're a marvel at mathematics -- so work out that problem for me .
`` See , here's a note from Mrs. Kirby inviting me to tea at Beechwood .
She called on me soon after the term opened and invited me to tea the next week .
But I had another engagement for that afternoon , so couldn't go .
Mr. Kirby is a business friend of Dad's , and they are very nice people .
The other invitation is to the annual autumn picnic of the Alpha Gammas .
Now , Worth Gordon , I simply must go to that .
I wouldn't miss it for anything .
But I don't want to offend Mrs. Kirby , and I 'm afraid I shall if I plead another engagement a second time .
Mother will be fearfully annoyed at me in that case .
Dear me , I wish there were two of me , one to go to the Alpha Gammas and one to Beechwood -- Worth Gordon ! ''
`` What's the matter ? ''
`` There are two of me !
What's the use of a double if not for a quandary like this !
Worth , you must go to tea at Beechwood Saturday afternoon in my place .
They'll think you are my very self .
They'll never know the difference .
Go and keep my place warm for me , there's a dear . ''
`` Impossible , '' cried Worth .
`` I 'd never dare !
They 'd know there was something wrong . ''
`` They wouldn't -- they couldn't .
None of the Kirbys have ever seen me except Mrs. Kirby , and she only for a few minutes one evening at dusk .
They don't know I have a double and they can't possibly suspect .
Do go , Worth .
Why , it'll be a regular lark , the best little joke ever !
And you'll oblige me immensely besides .
Worthie , please . ''
Worth did not consent all at once ; but the idea rather appealed to her for its daring and excitement .
It would be a lark -- just at that time Worth did not see it in any other light .
Besides , she wanted to oblige Millicent , who coaxed vehemently .
Finally , Worth yielded and promised Millicent that she would go to Beechwood in her place .
`` You darling ! ''
said Millicent emphatically , flying to her table to write acceptances of both invitations .
Saturday afternoon Worth got ready to keep Millicent's engagement .
`` Suppose I am found out and expelled from Beechwood in disgrace , '' she suggested laughingly , as she arranged her lace bertha before the glass .
`` Nonsense , '' said Millicent , pointing to their reflected faces .
`` The Kirbys can never suspect .
Why , if it weren't for the hair and the dresses , I 'd hardly know myself which of those reflections belonged to which . ''
`` What if they begin asking me about the welfare of the various members of your family ? ''
`` They won't ask any but the most superficial questions .
We 're not intimate enough for anything else .
I've coached you pretty thoroughly , and I think you'll get on all right . ''
Worth's courage carried her successfully through the ordeal of arriving at Beechwood and meeting Mrs. Kirby .
She was unsuspectingly accepted as Millicent Moore , and found her impersonation of that young lady not at all difficult .
No dangerous subject of conversation was introduced and nothing personal was said until Mr. Kirby came in .
He looked so scrutinizingly at Worth as he shook hands with her that the latter felt her heart beating very fast .
Did he suspect ?
`` Upon my word , Miss Moore , '' he said genially , `` you gave me quite a start at first .
You are very like what a half-sister of mine used to be when a girl long ago .
Of course the resemblance must be quite accidental . ''
`` Of course , '' said Worth , without any very clear sense of what she was saying .
Her face was uncomfortably flushed and she was glad when tea was announced .
As nothing more of an embarrassing nature was said , Worth soon recovered her self-possession and was able to enter into the conversation .
She liked the Kirbys ; still , under her enjoyment , she was conscious of a strange , disagreeable feeling that deepened as the evening wore on .
It was not fear -- she was not at all afraid of betraying herself now .
It had even been easier than she had expected .
Then what was it ?
Suddenly Worth flushed again .
She knew now -- it was shame .
She was a guest in that house as an impostor !
What she had done seemed no longer a mere joke .
What would her host and hostess say if they knew ?
That they would never know made no difference .
She herself could not forget it , and her realization of the baseness of the deception grew stronger under Mrs. Kirby's cordial kindness .
Worth never forgot that evening .
She compelled herself to chat as brightly as possible , but under it all was that miserable consciousness of falsehood , deepening every instant .
She was thankful when the time came to leave .
`` You must come up often , Miss Moore , '' said Mrs. Kirby kindly .
`` Look upon Beechwood as a second home while you are in Kinglake .
We have no daughter of our own , so we make a hobby of cultivating other people's . ''
When Millicent returned home from the Alpha Gamma outing , she found Worth in their room , looking soberly at the mirror .
Something in her chum's expression alarmed her .
`` Worth , what is it ?
Did they suspect ? ''
`` No , '' said Worth slowly .
`` They never suspected .
They think I am what I pretended to be -- Millicent Moore .
But , but , I wish I 'd never gone to Beechwood , Millie .
It wasn't right .
It was mean and wrong .
It was acting a lie .
I can't tell you how ashamed I felt when I realized that . ''
`` Nonsense , '' said Millicent , looking rather sober , nevertheless .
`` No harm was done .
It's only a good joke , Worth . ''
`` Yes , harm has been done .
I've done harm to myself , for one thing .
I've lost my self-respect .
I don't blame you , Millie .
It's all my own fault .
I've done a dishonourable thing , dishonourable . ''
Millicent sighed .
`` The Alpha Gamma picnic was horribly slow , '' she said .
`` I didn't enjoy myself a bit .
I wish I had gone to Beechwood .
I didn't think about it's being a practical falsehood before .
I suppose it was .
And I've always prided myself on my strict truthfulness !
It wasn't your fault , Worth !
It was mine .
But it can't be undone now . ''
`` No , it can't be undone , '' said Worth slowly , `` but it might be confessed .
We might tell Mrs. Kirby the truth and ask her to forgive us . ''
`` I couldn't do such a thing , '' cried Millicent .
`` It isn't to be thought of ! ''
Nevertheless , Millicent did think of it several times that night and all through the following Sunday .
She couldn't help thinking of it .
A dishonourable trick !
That thought stung Millicent .
Monday evening Millicent flung down the book from which she was vainly trying to study .
`` Worthie , it's no use .
You were right .
There's nothing to do but go and ` fess up to Mrs. Kirby .
I can't respect Millicent Moore again until I do .
I 'm going right up now . ''
`` I'll go with you , '' said Worth quietly .
`` I was equally to blame and I must take my share of the humiliation . ''
When the girls reached Beechwood , they were shown into the library where the family were sitting .
Mrs. Kirby came smilingly forward to greet Millicent when her eyes fell upon Worth .
`` Why !
why ! ''
she said .
`` I didn't know you had a twin sister , Miss Moore . ''
`` Neither I have , '' said Millicent , laughing nervously .
`` This is my chum , Worth Gordon , but she is no relation whatever . ''
At the mention of Worth's name , Mr. Kirby started slightly , but nobody noticed it .
Millicent went on in a trembling voice .
`` We've come up to confess something , Mrs. Kirby .
I 'm sure you'll think it dreadful , but we didn't mean any harm .
We just didn't realize , until afterwards . ''
Then Millicent , with burning cheeks , told the whole story and asked to be forgiven .
`` I , too , must apologize , '' said Worth , when Millicent had finished .
`` Can you pardon me , Mrs. Kirby ? ''
Mrs. Kirby had listened in amazed silence , but now she laughed .
`` Certainly , '' she said kindly .
`` I don't suppose it was altogether right for you girls to play such a trick on anybody .
But I can make allowances for schoolgirl pranks .
I was a school girl once myself , and far from a model one .
You have atoned for your mistake by coming so frankly and confessing , and now we'll forget all about it .
I think you have learned your lesson .
Both of you must just sit down and spend the evening with us .
Dear me , but you are bewilderingly alike ! ''
`` I've something I want to say , '' interposed Mr. Kirby suddenly .
`` You say your name is Worth Gordon , '' he added , turning to Worth .
`` May I ask what your mother's name was ? ''
`` Worth Mowbray , '' answered Worth wonderingly .
`` I was sure of it , '' said Mr. Kirby triumphantly , `` when I heard Miss Moore mention your name .
Your mother was my half-sister , and you are my niece . ''
Everybody exclaimed and for a few moments they all talked and questioned together .
Then Mr. Kirby explained fully .
`` I was born on a farm up-country .
My mother was a widow when she married my father , and she had one daughter , Worth Mowbray , five years older than myself .
When I was three years old , my mother died .
Worth went to live with our mother's only living relative , an aunt .
My father and I removed to another section of the country .
He , too , died soon after , and I was brought up with an uncle's family .
My sister came to see me once when she was a girl of seventeen and , as I remember her , very like you are now .
I never saw her again and eventually lost trace of her .
Many years later I endeavoured to find out her whereabouts .
Our aunt was dead , and the people in the village where she had lived informed me that my sister was also dead .
She had married a man named Gordon and had gone away , both she and her husband had died , and I was informed that they left no children , so I made no further inquiries .
There is no doubt that you are her daughter .
Well , well , this is a pleasant surprise , to find a little niece in this fashion ! ''
It was a pleasant surprise to Worth , too , who had thought herself all alone in the world and had felt her loneliness keenly .
They had a wonderful evening , talking and questioning and explaining .
Mr. Kirby declared that Worth must come and live with them .
`` We have no daughter , '' he said .
`` You must come to us in the place of one , Worth . ''
Mrs. Kirby seconded this with a cordiality that won Worth's affection at once .
The girl felt almost bewildered by her happiness .
`` I feel as if I were in a dream , '' she said to Millicent as they walked to their boarding-house .
`` It's really all too wonderful to grasp at once .
You don't know , Millie , how lonely I've felt often under all my nonsense and fun .
Aunt Delia was kind to me , but she was really no relation , she had a large family of her own , and I have always felt that she looked upon me as a rather inconvenient duty .
But now I 'm so happy ! ''
`` I 'm so glad for you , Worth , '' said Millicent warmly , `` although your gain will certainly be my loss , for I shall miss my roommate terribly when she goes to live at Beechwood .
Hasn't it all turned out strangely ?
If you had never gone to Beechwood in my place , this would never have happened . ''
`` Say rather that if we hadn't gone to confess our fault , it would never have happened , '' said Worth gently .
`` I 'm very , very glad that I have found Uncle George and such a loving welcome to his home .
But I 'm gladder still that I've got my self-respect back .
I feel that I can look Worth Gordon in the face again . ''
`` I've learned a wholesome lesson , too , '' admitted Millicent .
