The first summer Mr. Irving and Miss Lavendar -- Diana and I could never call her anything else , even after she was married -- were at Echo Lodge after their marriage , both Diana and I spent a great deal of time with them .
We became acquainted with many of the Grafton people whom we had not known before , and among others , the family of Mr. Mack Leith .
We often went up to the Leiths in the evening to play croquet .
Millie and Margaret Leith were very nice girls , and the boys were nice , too .
Indeed , we liked every one in the family , except poor old Miss Emily Leith .
We tried hard enough to like her , because she seemed to like Diana and me very much , and always wanted to sit with us and talk to us , when we would much rather have been somewhere else .
We often felt a good deal of impatience at these times , but I am very glad to think now that we never showed it .
In a way , we felt sorry for Miss Emily .
She was Mr. Leith's old-maid sister and she was not of much importance in the household .
But , though we felt sorry for her , we couldn't like her .
She really was fussy and meddlesome ; she liked to poke a finger into every one's pie , and she was not at all tactful .
Then , too , she had a sarcastic tongue , and seemed to feel bitter towards all the young folks and their love affairs .
Diana and I thought this was because she had never had a lover of her own .
Somehow , it seemed impossible to think of lovers in connection with Miss Emily .
She was short and stout and pudgy , with a face so round and fat and red that it seemed quite featureless ; and her hair was scanty and gray .
She walked with a waddle , just like Mrs. Rachel Lynde , and she was always rather short of breath .
It was hard to believe Miss Emily had ever been young ; yet old Mr. Murray , who lived next door to the Leiths , not only expected us to believe it , but assured us that she had been very pretty .
`` THAT , at least , is impossible , '' said Diana to me .
And then , one day , Miss Emily died .
I 'm afraid no one was very sorry .
It seems to me a most dreadful thing to go out of the world and leave not one person behind to be sorry because you have gone .
Miss Emily was dead and buried before Diana and I heard of it at all .
The first I knew of it was when I came home from Orchard Slope one day and found a queer , shabby little black horsehair trunk , all studded with brass nails , on the floor of my room at Green Gables .
Marilla told me that Jack Leith had brought it over , and said that it had belonged to Miss Emily and that , when she was dying , she asked them to send it to me .
`` But what is in it ?
And what am I to do with it ? ''
I asked in bewilderment .
`` There was nothing said about what you were to do with it .
Jack said they didn't know what was in it , and hadn't looked into it , seeing that it was your property .
It seems a rather queer proceeding -- but you 're always getting mixed up in queer proceedings , Anne .
As for what is in it , the easiest way to find out , I reckon , is to open it and see .
The key is tied to it .
Jack said Miss Emily said she wanted you to have it because she loved you and saw her lost youth in you .
I guess she was a bit delirious at the last and wandered a good deal .
She said she wanted you ` to understand her . ' ''
I ran over to Orchard Slope and asked Diana to come over and examine the trunk with me .
I hadn't received any instructions about keeping its contents secret and I knew Miss Emily wouldn't mind Diana knowing about them , whatever they were .
It was a cool , gray afternoon and we got back to Green Gables just as the rain was beginning to fall .
When we went up to my room the wind was rising and whistling through the boughs of the big old Snow Queen outside of my window .
Diana was excited , and , I really believe , a little bit frightened .
We opened the old trunk .
It was very small , and there was nothing in it but a big cardboard box .
The box was tied up and the knots sealed with wax .
We lifted it out and untied it .
I touched Diana's fingers as we did it , and both of us exclaimed at once , `` How cold your hand is ! ''
In the box was a quaint , pretty , old-fashioned gown , not at all faded , made of blue muslin , with a little darker blue flower in it .
Under it we found a sash , a yellowed feather fan , and an envelope full of withered flowers .
At the bottom of the box was a little brown book .
It was small and thin , like a girl's exercise book , with leaves that had once been blue and pink , but were now quite faded , and stained in places .
On the fly leaf was written , in a very delicate hand , `` Emily Margaret Leith , '' and the same writing covered the first few pages of the book .
The rest were not written on at all .
We sat there on the floor , Diana and I , and read the little book together , while the rain thudded against the window panes .
June 19 , 18 -- I came to-day to spend a while with Aunt Margaret in Charlottetown .
It is so pretty here , where she lives -- and ever so much nicer than on the farm at home .
I have no cows to milk here or pigs to feed .
Aunt Margaret has given me such a lovely blue muslin dress , and I am to have it made to wear at a garden party out at Brighton next week .
I never had a muslin dress before -- nothing but ugly prints and dark woolens .
I wish we were rich , like Aunt Margaret .
Aunt Margaret laughed when I said this , and declared she would give all her wealth for my youth and beauty and light-heartedness .
I am only eighteen and I know I am very merry but I wonder if I am really pretty .
It seems to me that I am when I look in Aunt Margaret's beautiful mirrors .
They make me look very different from the old cracked one in my room at home which always twisted my face and turned me green .
But Aunt Margaret spoiled her compliment by telling me I look exactly as she did at my age .
If I thought I 'd ever look as Aunt Margaret does now , I don't know what I 'd do .
She is so fat and red .
June 29 .
Last week I went to the garden party and I met a young man called Paul Osborne .
He is a young artist from Montreal who is boarding over at Heppoch .
He is the handsomest man I have ever seen -- very tall and slender , with dreamy , dark eyes and a pale , clever face .
I have not been able to keep from thinking about him ever since , and to-day he came over here and asked if he could paint me .
I felt very much flattered and so pleased when Aunt Margaret gave him permission .
He says he wants to paint me as `` Spring , '' standing under the poplars where a fine rain of sunshine falls through .
I am to wear my blue muslin gown and a wreath of flowers on my hair .
He says I have such beautiful hair .
He has never seen any of such a real pale gold .
Somehow it seems even prettier than ever to me since he praised it .
I had a letter from home to-day .
Ma says the blue hen stole her nest and came off with fourteen chickens , and that pa has sold the little spotted calf .
Somehow those things don't interest me like they once did .
July 9 .
The picture is coming on very well , Mr. Osborne says .
I know he is making me look far too pretty in it , although her persists in saying he can't do me justice .
He is going to send it to some great exhibition when finished , but he says he will make a little water-color copy for me .
He comes every day to paint and we talk a great deal and he reads me lovely things out of his books .
I don't understand them all , but I try to , and he explains them so nicely and is so patient with my stupidity .
And he says any one with my eyes and hair and coloring does not need to be clever .
He says I have the sweetest , merriest laugh in the world .
But I will not write down all the compliments he has paid me .
I dare say he does not mean them at all .
In the evening we stroll among the spruces or sit on the bench under the acacia tree .
Sometimes we don't talk at all , but I never find the time long .
Indeed , the minutes just seem to fly -- and then the moon will come up , round and red , over the harbor and Mr. Osborne will sigh and say he supposes it is time for him to go .
July 24 .
I am so happy .
I am frightened at my happiness .
Oh , I didn't think life could ever be so beautiful for me as it is !
Paul loves me !
He told me so to-night as we walked by the harbor and watched the sunset , and he asked me to be his wife .
I have cared for him ever since I met him , but I am afraid I am not clever and well-educated enough for a wife for Paul .
Because , of course , I 'm only an ignorant little country girl and have lived all my life on a farm .
Why , my hands are quite rough yet from the work I've done .
But Paul just laughed when I said so , and took my hands and kissed them .
Then he looked into my eyes and laughed again , because I couldn't hide from him how much I loved him .
We are to be married next spring and Paul says he will take me to Europe .
That will be very nice , but nothing matters so long as I am with him .
Paul's people are very wealthy and his mother and sisters are very fashionable .
I am frightened of them , but I did not tell Paul so because I think it would hurt him and oh , I wouldn't do that for the world .
There is nothing I wouldn't suffer if it would do him any good .
I never thought any one could feel so .
I used to think if I loved anybody I would want him to do everything for me and wait on me as if I were a princess .
But that is not the way at all .
Love makes you very humble and you want to do everything yourself for the one you love .
August 10 .
Paul went home to-day .
Oh , it is so terrible !
I don't know how I can bear to live even for a little while without him .
But this is silly of me , because I know he has to go and he will write often and come to me often .
But , still , it is so lonesome .
I didn't cry when he left me because I wanted him to remember me smiling in the way he liked best , but I have been crying ever since and I can't stop , no matter how hard I try .
We have had such a beautiful fortnight .
Every day seemed dearer and happier than the last , and now it is ended and I feel as if it could never be the same again .
Oh , I am very foolish -- but I love him so dearly and if I were to lose his love I know I would die .
August 17 .
I think my heart is dead .
But no , it can't be , for it aches too much .
Paul's mother came here to see me to-day .
She was not angry or disagreeable .
I wouldn't have been so frightened of her if she had been .
As it was , I felt that I couldn't say a word .
She is very beautiful and stately and wonderful , with a low , cold voice and proud , dark eyes .
Her face is like Paul's but without the loveableness of his .
She talked to me for a long time and she said terrible things -- terrible , because I knew they were all true .
I seemed to see everything through her eyes .
She said that Paul was infatuated with my youth and beauty but that it would not last and what else I to give him ?
She said Paul must marry a woman of his own class , who could do honor to his fame and position .
She said that he was very talented and had a great career before him , but that if he married me it would ruin his life .
I saw it all , just as she explained it out , and I told her at last that I would not marry Paul , and she might tell him so .
But she smiled and said I must tell him myself , because he would not believe any one else .
I could have begged her to spare me that , but I knew it would be of no use .
I do not think she has any pity or mercy for any one .
Besides , what she said was quite true .
When she thanked me for being so REASONABLE I told her I was not doing it to please her , but for Paul's sake , because I would not spoil his life , and that I would always hate her .
She smiled again and went away .
Oh , how can I bear it ?
I did not know any one could suffer like this !
August 18 .
I have done it .
I wrote to Paul to-day .
I knew I must tell him by letter , because I could never make him believe it face to face .
I was afraid I could not even do it by letter .
I suppose a clever woman easily could , but I am so stupid .
I wrote a great many letters and tore them up , because I felt sure they wouldn't convince Paul .
At last I got one that I thought would do .
I knew I must make it seems as if I were very frivolous and heartless , or he would never believe .
I spelled some words wrong and put in some mistakes of grammar on purpose .
I told him I had just been flirting with him , and that I had another fellow at home I liked better .
I said FELLOW because I knew it would disgust him .
I said that it was only because he was rich that I was tempted to marry him .
I thought would my heart would break while I was writing those dreadful falsehoods .
But it was for his sake , because I must not spoil his life .
His mother told me I would be a millstone around his neck .
I love Paul so much that I would do anything rather than be that .
It would be easy to die for him , but I don't see how I can go on living .
I think my letter will convince Paul .
I suppose it convinced Paul , because there was no further entry in the little brown book .
When we had finished it the tears were running down both our faces .
`` Oh , poor , dear Miss Emily , '' sobbed Diana .
`` I 'm so sorry I ever thought her funny and meddlesome . ''
`` She was good and strong and brave , '' I said .
`` I could never have been as unselfish as she was . ''
I thought of Whittier's lines , `` The outward , wayward life we see The hidden springs we may not know . ''
At the back of the little brown book we found a faded water-color sketch of a young girl -- such a slim , pretty little thing , with big blue eyes and lovely , long , rippling golden hair .
Paul Osborne's name was written in faded ink across the corner .
We put everything back in the box .
Then we sat for a long time by my window in silence and thought of many things , until the rainy twilight came down and blotted out the world .
