Jack's Side of It Jill says I have to begin this story because it was me -- I mean it was I -- who made all the trouble in the first place .
That is so like Jill .
She is such a good hand at forgetting .
Why , it was she who suggested the plot to me .
I should never have thought of it myself -- not that Jill is any smarter than I am , either , but girls are such creatures for planning up mischief and leading other folks into it and then laying the blame on them when things go wrong .
How could I tell Dick would act so like a mule ?
I thought grown-up folks had more sense .
Aunt Tommy was down on me for weeks , while she thought Jill a regular heroine .
But there !
Girls don't know anything about being fair , and I am determined I will never have anything more to do with them and their love affairs as long as I live .
Jill says I will change my mind when I grow up , but I won't .
Still , Jill is a pretty good sort of girl .
I have to scold her sometimes , but if any other chap tried to I would punch his head for him .
I suppose it is time I explained who Dick and Aunt Tommy are .
Dick is our minister .
He hasn't been it very long .
He only came a year ago .
I shall never forget how surprised Jill and I were that first Sunday we went to church and saw him .
We had always thought that ministers had to be old .
All the ministers we knew were .
Mr. Grinnell , the one before Dick came , must have been as old as Methuselah .
But Dick was young -- and good-looking .
Jill said she thought it a positive sin for a minister to be so good-looking , it didn't seem Christian ; but that was just because all the ministers we knew happened to be homely so that it didn't appear natural .
Dick was tall and pale and looked as if he had heaps of brains .
He had thick curly brown hair and big dark blue eyes -- Jill said his eyes were like an archangel's , but how could she tell ?
She never saw an archangel .
I liked his nose .
It was so straight and finished-looking .
Mr. Grinnell had the worst-looking nose you ever saw .
Jill and I used to make poetry about it in church to keep from falling asleep when he preached such awful long sermons .
Dick preached great sermons .
They were so nice and short .
It was such fun to hear him thump the pulpit when he got excited ; and when he got more excited still he would lean over the pulpit , his face all white , and talk so low and solemn that it would just send the most gorgeous thrills through you .
Dick came to Owlwood -- that's our place ; I hate these explanations -- quite a lot , even before Aunt Tommy came .
He and Father were chums ; they had been in college together and Father said Dick was the best football player he ever knew .
Jill and I soon got acquainted with him and this was another uncanny thing .
We had never thought it possible to get acquainted with a minister .
Jill said she didn't think it proper for a real live minister to be so chummy .
But then Jill was a little jealous because Dick and I , being both men ; were better friends than he and she could be .
He taught me to skate that winter and fence with canes and do long division .
I could never understand long division before Dick came , although I was away on in fractions .
Jill has just been in and says I ought to explain that Dick's name wasn't Dick .
I do wish Jill would mind her own business .
Of course it wasn't .
His real name was the Reverend Stephen Richmond , but Jill and I always called him Dick behind his back ; it seemed so jolly and venturesome , somehow , to speak of a minister like that .
Only we had to be careful not to let Father and Mother hear us .
Mother wouldn't even let Father call Dick `` Stephen '' ; she said it would set a bad example of familiarity to the children .
Mother is an old darling .
She won't believe we 're half as bad as we are .
Well , early in May comes Aunt Tommy .
I must explain who Aunt Tommy is or Jill will be at me again .
She is Father's youngest sister and her real name is Bertha Gordon , but Father has always called her Tommy and she likes it .
Jill and I had never seen Aunt Tommy before , but we took to her from the start because she was so pretty and because she talked to us just as if we were grown up .
She called Jill Elizabeth , and Jill would adore a Hottentot who called her Elizabeth .
Aunt Tommy is the prettiest girl I ever saw .
If Jill is half as good-looking when she gets to be twenty -- she's only ten now , same age as I am , we 're twins -- I shall be proud of her for a sister .
Aunt Tommy is all white and dimpled .
She has curly red hair and big jolly brown eyes and scrumptious freckles .
I do like freckles in a girl , although Jill goes wild if she thinks she has one on her nose .
When we talked of writing this story Jill said I wasn't to say that Aunt Tommy had freckles because it wouldn't sound romantic .
But I don't care .
She has freckles and I think they are all right .
We went to church with Aunt Tommy the first Sunday after she came , one on each side of her .
Aunt Tommy is the only girl in the world I 'd walk hand in hand with before people .
She looked fine that day .
She had on a gorgeous dress , all frills and ruffles , and a big white floppy hat .
I was proud of her for an aunt , I can tell you , and I was anxious for Dick to see her .
When he came up to speak to me and Jill after church came out I said , `` Aunt Tommy , this is Mr. Richmond , '' just like the grown-up people say .
Aunt Tommy and Dick shook hands and Dick got as red as anything .
It was funny to see him .
The very next evening he came down to Owlwood .
We hadn't expected him until Tuesday , for he never came Monday night before .
That is Father's night for going to a lodge meeting .
Mother was away this time too .
I met Dick on the porch and took him into the parlour , thinking what a bully talk we could have all alone together , without Jill bothering around .
But in a minute Aunt Tommy came in and she and Dick began to talk , and I just couldn't get a word in edgewise .
I got so disgusted I started out , but I don't believe they ever noticed I was gone .
I liked Aunt Tommy very well , but I didn't think she had any business to monopolize Dick like that when he and I were such old chums .
Outside I came across Jill .
She was sitting all alone in the dark , curled up on the edge of the verandah just where she could see into the parlour through the big glass door .
I sat down beside her , for I wanted sympathy .
`` Dick's in there talking to Aunt Tommy , '' I said .
`` I don't see what makes him want to talk to her . ''
`` What a goose you are ! ''
said Jill in that aggravatingly patronizing way of hers .
`` Why , Dick has fallen in love with Aunt Tommy ! ''
Honest , I jumped .
I never was so surprised .
`` How do you know ? ''
I asked .
`` Because I do , '' said Jill .
`` I knew it yesterday at church and I think it is so romantic . ''
`` I don't see how you can tell , '' I said -- and I didn't .
`` You'll understand better when you get older , '' said Jill .
Sometimes Jill talks as if she were a hundred years older than I am , instead of being a twin .
And really , sometimes I think she is older .
`` I didn't think ministers ever fell in love , '' I protested .
`` Some do , '' said Jill sagely .
`` Mr. Grinnell wouldn't ever , I suppose .
But Dick is different .
I 'd like him for a husband myself .
But he 'd be too old for me by the time I grew up , so I suppose I'll have to let Aunt Tommy have him .
It will be all in the family anyhow -- that is one comfort .
I think Aunt Tommy ought to have me for a flower girl and I'll wear pink silk clouded over with white chiffon and carry a big bouquet of roses . ''
`` Jill , you take my breath away , '' I said , and she did .
My imagination couldn't travel as fast as that .
But after I had thought the idea over a bit I liked it .
It was a good deal like a book ; and , besides , a minister is a respectable thing to have in a family .
`` We must help them all we can , '' said Jill .
`` What can we do ? ''
I asked .
`` We must praise Dick to Aunt Tommy and Aunt Tommy to Dick and we must keep out of the way -- we mustn't ever hang around when they want to be alone , '' said Jill .
`` I don't want to give up being chums with Dick , '' I grumbled .
`` We must be self-sacrificing , '' said Jill .
And that sounded so fine it reconciled me to the attempt .
We sat there and watched Dick and Aunt Tommy for an hour .
I thought they were awfully prim and stiff .
If I 'd been Dick I 'd have gone over and hugged her .
I said so to Jill and Jill was shocked .
She said it wouldn't be proper when they weren't even engaged .
When Dick went away Aunt Tommy came out to the verandah and discovered us .
She sat down between us and put her arms about us .
Aunt Tommy has such cute ways .
`` I like your minister very much , '' she said .
`` He's bully , '' I said .
`` He's as handsome as a prince , '' Jill said .
`` He preaches splendid sermons -- he makes people sit up in church , I can tell you , '' I said .
`` He has a heavenly tenor voice , '' Jill said .
`` He's got a magnificent muscle , '' I said .
`` He has the most poetical eyes , '' Jill said .
`` He swims like a duck , '' I said .
`` He looks just like a Greek god , '' Jill said .
I 'm sure Jill couldn't have known what a Greek god looked like , but I suppose she got the comparison out of some novel .
Jill is always reading novels .
She borrows them from the cook .
Aunt Tommy laughed and said , `` You darlings . ''
For the next three months Jill and I were wild .
It was just like reading a serial story to watch Dick and Aunt Tommy .
One day when Dick came Aunt Tommy wasn't quite ready to come down , so Jill and I went in to the parlour to help things along .
We knew we hadn't much time , so we began right off .
`` Aunt Tommy is the jolliest girl I know , '' I said .
`` She is as beautiful as a dream , '' Jill said .
`` She can play games as good as a boy , '' I said .
`` She does the most elegant fancy work , '' Jill said .
`` She never gets mad , '' I said .
`` She plays and sings divinely , '' Jill said .
`` She can cook awfully good things , '' I said , for I was beginning to run short of compliments .
Jill was horrified ; she said afterwards that it wasn't a bit romantic .
But I don't care -- I believe Dick liked it , for he smiled with his eyes I just as he always does when he's pleased .
Girls don't understand everything .
* * * * * But at the end of three months we began to get anxious .
Things were going so slow .
Dick and Aunt Tommy didn't seem a bit further ahead than at first .
Jill said it was because Aunt Tommy didn't encourage Dick enough .
`` I do wish we could hurry them up a little , '' she said .
`` At this rate they will never be married this year and by next I'll be too big to be a flower girl .
I 'm stretching out horribly as it is .
Mother has had to let down my frocks again . ''
`` I wish they would get engaged and have done with it , '' I said .
`` My mind would be at rest then .
It's all Dick's fault .
Why doesn't he ask Aunt Tommy to marry him ?
What's making him so slow about it ?
If I wanted a girl to marry me -- but I wouldn't ever -- I 'd tell her so right spang off . ''
`` I suppose ministers have to be more dignified , '' said Jill , `` but three months ought to be enough time for anyone .
And Aunt Tommy is only going to be here another month .
If Dick could be made a little jealous it would hurry him up .
And he could be made jealous if you had any spunk about you . ''
`` I guess I've got more spunk than you have , '' I said .
`` The trouble with Dick is this , '' said Jill .
`` There is nobody else coming to see Aunt Tommy and he thinks he is sure of her .
If you could tell him something different it would stir him up . ''
`` Are you sure it would ? ''
I asked .
`` It always does in novels , '' said Jill .
And that settled it , of course .
Jill and I fixed up what I was to say and Jill made me say it over and over again to be sure I had it right .
I told her -- sarcastically -- that she 'd better say it herself and then it would be done properly .
Jill said she would if it were Aunt Tommy , but when it was Dick it was better for a man to do it .
So of course I agreed .
I didn't know when I would have a chance to stir Dick up , but Providence -- so Jill said -- favoured us .
Aunt Tommy didn't expect Dick down the next night , so she and Father and Mother all went away somewhere .
Dick came after all , and Jill sent me into the parlour to tell him .
He was standing before the mantel looking at Aunt Tommy's picture .
There was such an adoring look in his eyes .
I could see it quite plain in the mirror before him .
I practised that look a lot before my own glass after that -- because I thought it might come in handy some time , you know -- but I guess I couldn't have got it just right because when I tried it on Jill she asked me if I had a pain .
`` Well , Jack , old man , '' said Dick , sitting down on the sofa .
I sat down before him .
`` Aunt Tommy is out , '' I said , to get the worst over .
`` I guess you like Aunt Tommy pretty well , don't you , Mr. Richmond ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Dick softly .
`` So do other men , '' I said -- mysterious , as Jill had ordered me .
Dick thumped one of the sofa pillows .
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' he said .
`` There's a man in New York who just worships Aunt Tommy , '' I said .
`` He writes her most every day and sends her books and music and elegant presents .
I guess she's pretty fond of him too .
She keeps his photograph on her bedroom table and I've seen her kissing it . ''
I stopped there , not because I had said all I had to say , but because Dick's face scared me -- honest , it did .
It had all gone white , like it does in the pulpit sometimes when he is tremendously in earnest , only ten times worse .
But all he said was , `` Is your Aunt Bertha engaged to this -- this man ? ''
`` Not exactly engaged , '' I said , `` but I guess anybody else who wants to marry her will have to reckon with him . ''
Dick got up .
`` I think I won't wait this evening , '' he said .
`` I wish you 'd stay and have a talk with me , '' I said .
`` I haven't had a talk with you for ages and I have a million things to tell you . ''
Dick smiled as if it hurt him to smile .
`` I can't tonight , Jacky .
Some other time we'll have a good powwow , old chap . ''
He took his hat and went out .
Then Jill came flying in to hear all about it .
I told her as well as I could , but she wasn't satisfied .
If Dick took it so quietly , she declared , I couldn't have made it strong enough .
`` If you had seen Dick's face , '' I said , `` you would have thought I made it plenty strong .
And I 'd like to know what Aunt Tommy will say to all this when she finds out . ''
`` Well , you didn't tell a thing but what was true , '' said Jill .
The next evening was Dick's regular night for coming , but he didn't come , although Jill and I went down the lane a dozen times to watch for him .
The night after that was prayer-meeting night .
Dick had always walked home with Aunt Tommy and us , but that night he didn't .
He only just bowed and smiled as he passed us in the porch .
Aunt Tommy hardly spoke all the way home , only just held tight to Jill's and my hands .
But after we got home she seemed in great spirits and laughed and chatted with Father and Mother .
`` What does this mean ? ''
asked Jill , grabbing me in the hall on our way to bed .
`` You 'd better get another novel from the cook and find out , '' I said grouchily .
I was disgusted with things in general and Dick in particular .
The three weeks that followed were awful .
Dick never came near Owlwood .
Jill and I fought every day , we were so cross and disappointed .
Nothing had come out right , and Jill blamed it all on me .
She said I must have made it too strong .
There was no fun in anything , not even in going to church .
Dick hardly thumped the pulpit at all and when he did it was only a measly little thump .
But Aunt Tommy didn't seem to worry any .
She sang and laughed and joked from morning to night .
`` She doesn't mind Dick's making an ass of himself , anyway , that's one consolation , '' I said to Jill .
`` She is breaking her heart about it , '' said Jill , `` and that's your consolation ! ''
`` I don't believe it , '' I said .
`` What makes you think so ? ''
`` She cries every night , '' said Jill .
`` I can tell by the look of her eyes in the morning . ''
`` She doesn't look half as woebegone over it as you do , '' I said .
`` If I had her reason for looking woebegone I wouldn't look it either , '' said Jill .
I asked her to explain her meaning , but she only said that little boys couldn't understand those things .
Things went on like this for another week .
Then they reached -- so Jill says -- a climax .
If Jill knows what that means I don't .
But Pinky Carewe was the climax .
Pinky's name is James , but Jill and I always called him Pinky because we couldn't bear him .
He took to calling at Owlwood and one evening he took Aunt Tommy out driving .
Then Jill came to me .
`` Something has got to be done , '' she said resolutely .
`` I am not going to have Pinky Carewe for an Uncle Tommy and that is all there is about it .
You must go straight to Dick and tell him the truth about the New York man . ''
I looked at Jill to see if she were in earnest .
When I saw that she was I said , `` I wouldn't take all the gems of Golconda and go and tell Dick that I 'd been hoaxing him .
You can do it yourself , Jill Gordon . ''
`` You didn't tell him anything that wasn't true , '' said Jill .
`` I don't know how a minister might look upon it , '' I said .
`` Anyway , I won't go . ''
`` Then I suppose I've got to , '' said Jill very dolefully .
`` Yes , you'll have to , '' I said .
And this finishes my part of the story , and Jill is going to tell the rest .
But you needn't believe everything she says about me in it .
Jill's Side of It Jacky has made a fearful muddle of his part , but I suppose I shall just have to let it go .
You couldn't expect much better of a boy .
But I am determined to re-describe Aunt Tommy , for the way Jacky has done it is just disgraceful .
I know exactly how to do it , the way it is always done in stories .
Aunt Tommy is divinely beautiful .
Her magnificent wealth of burnished auburn hair flows back in amethystine waves from her sun-kissed brow .
Her eyes are gloriously dark and deep , like midnight lakes mirroring the stars of heaven ; her features are like sculptured marble and her mouth is like a trembling , curving Cupid's bow , this is a classical allusion , luscious and glowing as a dewy rose .
Her creamy skin is as fair and flawless as the inner petals of a white lily .
, She may have a weeny teeny freckle or two in summer , but you 'd never notice . ,
Her slender form is matchless in its symmetry and her voice is like the ripple of a woodland brook .
There , I 'm sure that's ever so much better than Jacky's description , and now I can proceed with a clear conscience .
Well , I didn't like the idea of going and explaining to Dick very much , but it had to be done unless I wanted to run the risk of having Pinky Carewe in the family .
So I went the next morning .
I put on my very prettiest pink organdie dress and did my hair the new way , which is very becoming to me .
When you are going to have an important interview with a man it is always well to look your very best .
I put on my big hat with the wreath of pink roses that Aunt Tommy had brought me from New York and took my spandy ruffled parasol .
`` With your shield or upon it , Jill , '' said Jacky when I started .
, This is another classical allusion . ,
I went straight up the hill and down the road to the manse where Dick lived with his old housekeeper , Mrs. Dodge .
She came to the door when I knocked and I said , very politely , `` Can I see the Reverend Stephen Richmond , if you please ? ''
Mrs. Dodge went upstairs and came right back saying would I please go up to the study .
Up I went , my heart in my mouth , I can tell you , and there was Dick among his books , looking so pale and sorrowful and interesting , for all the world like Lord Algernon Francis in the splendid serial in the paper cook took .
There was a Madonna on his desk that looked just like Aunt Tommy .
`` Good evening , Miss Elizabeth , '' said Dick , just as if I were grown up , you know .
`` Won't you sit down ?
Try that green velvet chair .
I am sure it was created for a pink dress and unfortunately neither Mrs. Dodge nor I possess one .
How are all your people ? ''
`` We are all pretty well ; thank you , '' I said , `` except Aunt Tommy .
She -- '' I was going to say , `` She cries every night after she goes to bed , '' but I remembered just in time that if I were in Aunt Tommy's place I wouldn't want a man to know I cried about him even if I did .
So I said instead '' -- she has got a cold . ''
`` Ah , indeed , I am sorry to hear it , '' said Dick , politely but coldly , as if it were part of his duty as a minister to be sorry for anybody who had a cold , but as if , apart from that , it was not a concern of his if Aunt Tommy had galloping consumption .
`` And Jack and I are terribly harrowed up in our minds , '' I went on .
`` That is what I've come up to see you about . ''
`` Well , tell me all about it , '' said Dick .
`` I 'm afraid to , '' I said .
`` I know you'll be cross even if you are a minister .
It's about what Jack told you about that man in New York and Aunt Tommy . ''
Dick turned as red as fire .
`` I 'd rather not discuss your Aunt Bertha's affairs , '' he said stiffly .
`` You must hear this , '' I cried , feeling thankful that Jacky hadn't come after all , for he 'd never have got any further ahead after that snub .
`` It's all a mistake .
There is a man in New York and he just worships Aunt Tommy and she just adores him .
But he's seventy years old and he's her Uncle Matthew who brought her up ever since her father died and you've heard her talking about him a hundred times .
That's all , cross my heart solemn and true . ''
You never saw anything like Dick's face when I stopped .
It looked just like a sunrise .
But he said slowly , `` Why did Jacky tell me such a -- tell me it in such a way ? ''
`` We wanted to make you jealous , '' I said .
`` I put Jacky up to it . ''
`` I didn't think it was in either of you to do such a thing , '' said Dick reproachfully .
`` Oh , Dick , '' I cried -- fancy my calling him Dick right to his face !
Jacky will never believe I really did it .
He says I would never have dared .
But it wasn't daring at all , it was just forgetting .
`` Oh , Dick , we didn't mean any harm .
We thought you weren't getting on fast enough and we wanted to stir you up like they do in books .
We thought if we made you jealous it would work all right .
We didn't mean any harm .
Oh , please forgive us ! ''
I was just ready to cry .
But that dear Dick leaned over the table and patted my hand .
`` There , there , it's all right .
I understand and of course I forgive you .
Don't cry , sweetheart . ''
The way Dick said `` sweetheart '' was perfectly lovely .
I envied Aunt Tommy , and I wanted to keep on crying so that he would go on comforting me .
`` And you'll come back to see Aunt Tommy again ? ''
I said .
Dick's face clouded over ; he got up and walked around the room several times before he said a word .
Then he came and sat down beside me and explained it all to me , just as if I were grown up .
`` Sweetheart , we'll talk this all out .
You see , it is this way .
Your Aunt Bertha is the sweetest woman in the world .
But I 'm only a poor minister and I have no right to ask her to share my life of hard work and self-denial .
And even if I dared I know she wouldn't do it .
She doesn't care anything for me except as a friend .
I never meant to tell her I cared for her but I couldn't help going to Owlwood , even though I knew it was a weakness on my part .
So now that I 'm out of the habit of going I think it would be wisest to stay out .
It hurts dreadfully , but it would hurt worse after a while .
Don't you agree with me , Miss Elizabeth ? ''
I thought hard and fast .
If I were in Aunt Tommy's place I mightn't want a man to know I cried about him , but I was quite sure I 'd rather have him know than have him stay away because he didn't know .
So I spoke right up .
`` No , I don't , Mr. Richmond ; Aunt Tommy does care -- you just ask her .
She cries every blessed night because you never come to Owlwood . ''
`` Oh , Elizabeth ! ''
said Dick .
He got up and stalked about the room again .
`` You'll come back ? ''
I said .
`` Yes , '' he answered .
I drew a long breath .
It was such a responsibility off my mind .
`` Then you 'd better come down with me right off , '' I said , `` for Pinky Carewe had her out driving last night and I want a stop put to that as soon as possible .
Even if he is rich he's a perfect pig . ''
Dick got his hat and came .
We walked up the road in lovely creamy yellow twilight and I was , oh , so happy .
`` Isn't it just like a novel ? ''
I said .
`` I am afraid , Elizabeth , '' said Dick preachily , `` that you read too many novels , and not the right kind , either .
Some of these days I am going to ask you to promise me that you will read no more books except those your mother and I pick out for you . ''
You don't know how squelched I felt .
And I knew I would have to promise , too , for Dick can make me do anything he likes .
When we got to Owlwood I left Dick in the parlour and flew up to Aunt Tommy's room .
I found her all scrunched up on her bed in the dark with her face in the pillows .
`` Aunt Tommy , Dick is down in the parlour and he wants to see you , '' I said .
Didn't Aunt Tommy fly up , though !
`` Oh , Jill -- but I 'm not fit to be seen -- tell him I'll be down in a few minutes . ''
I knew Aunt Tommy wanted to fix her hair and dab rose-water on her eyes , so I trotted meekly down and told Dick .
Then I flew out to Jacky and dragged him around to the glass door .
It was all hung over with vines and a wee bit ajar so that we could see and hear everything that went on .
Jacky said it was only sneaks that listened -- but he didn't say it until next day .
At the time he listened just as hard as I did .
I didn't care if it was mean .
I just had to listen .
I was perfectly wild to hear how a man would propose and how a girl would accept and it was too good a chance to lose .
Presently in sweeps Aunt Tommy , in an elegant dress , not a hair out of place .
She looked perfectly sweet , only her nose was a little red .
Dick looked at her for just a moment , then he stepped forward and took her right into his arms .
Aunt Tommy drew back her head for just a second as if she were going to crush him in the dust , and then she just all kind of crumpled up and her face went down on his shoulder .
`` Oh -- Bertha -- I -- love -- you -- I -- love you , '' he said , just like that , all quick and jerky .
`` You -- you have taken a queer way of showing it , '' said Aunt Tommy , all muffled .
`` I -- I -- was led to believe that there was another man -- whom you cared for -- and I thought you were only trifling with me .
So I sulked like a jealous fool .
Bertha , darling , you do love me a little , don't you ? ''
Aunt Tommy lifted her head and stuck up her mouth and he kissed her .
And there it was , all over , and they were engaged as quick as that , mind you .
He didn't even go down on his knees .
There was nothing romantic about it and I was never so disgusted in my life .
When I grow up and anybody proposes to me he will have to be a good deal more flowery and eloquent than that , I can tell you , if he wants me to listen to him .
I left Jacky peeking still and I went to bed .
After a long time Aunt Tommy came up to my room and sat down on my bed in the moonlight .
`` You dear blessed Elizabeth ! ''
she said .
`` It's all right then , is it ? ''
I asked .
`` Yes , it is all right , thanks to you , dearie .
We are to be married in October and somebody must be my little flower girl . ''
`` I think Dick will make a splendid husband , '' I said .
`` But Aunt Tommy , you mustn't be too hard on Jacky .
He only wanted to help things along , and it was I who put him up it in the first place . ''
`` You have atoned by going and confessing , '' said Aunt Tommy with a hug , `` Jacky had no business to put that off on you .
I'll forgive him , of course , but I'll punish him by not letting him know that I will for a little while .
Then I'll ask him to be a page at my wedding . ''
Well , the wedding came off last week .
It was a perfectly gorgeous affair .
Aunt Tommy's dress was a dream -- and so was mine , all pink silk and chiffon and carnations .
Jacky made a magnificent page too , in a suit of white velvet .
The wedding cake was four stories high , and Dick looked perfectly handsome .
He kissed me too , right after he kissed Aunt Tommy .
So everything turned out all right , and I believe Dick would never have dared to speak up if we hadn't helped things along .
But Jacky and I have decided that we will never meddle in an affair of the kind again .
