Beneath the porch of the country-seat called Tanglewood , one fine autumnal morning , was assembled a merry party of little folks , with a tall youth in the midst of them .
They had planned a nutting expedition , and were impatiently waiting for the mists to roll up the hill-slopes , and for the sun to pour the warmth of the Indian summer over the fields and pastures , and into the nooks of the many-colored woods .
There was a prospect of as fine a day as ever gladdened the aspect of this beautiful and comfortable world .
As yet , however , the morning mist filled up the whole length and breadth of the valley , above which , on a gently sloping eminence , the mansion stood .
This body of white vapor extended to within less than a hundred yards of the house .
It completely hid everything beyond that distance , except a few ruddy or yellow tree-tops , which here and there emerged , and were glorified by the early sunshine , as was likewise the broad surface of the mist .
Four or five miles off to the southward rose the summit of Monument Mountain , and seemed to be floating on a cloud .
Some fifteen miles farther away , in the same direction , appeared the loftier Dome of Taconic , looking blue and indistinct , and hardly so substantial as the vapory sea that almost rolled over it .
The nearer hills , which bordered the valley , were half submerged , and were specked with little cloud-wreaths all the way to their tops .
On the whole , there was so much cloud , and so little solid earth , that it had the effect of a vision .
The children above-mentioned , being as full of life as they could hold , kept overflowing from the porch of Tanglewood , and scampering along the gravel-walk , or rushing across the dewy herbage of the lawn .
I can hardly tell how many of these small people there were ; not less than nine or ten , however , nor more than a dozen , of all sorts , sizes , and ages , whether girls or boys .
They were brothers , sisters , and cousins , together with a few of their young acquaintances , who had been invited by Mr. and Mrs. Pringle to spend some of this delightful weather with their own children , at Tanglewood .
I am afraid to tell you their names , or even to give them any names which other children have ever been called by ; because , to my certain knowledge , authors sometimes get themselves into great trouble by accidentally giving the names of real persons to the characters in their books .
For this reason , I mean to call them Primrose , Periwinkle , Sweet Fern , Dandelion , Blue Eye , Clover , Huckleberry , Cowslip , Squash-blossom , Milkweed , Plantain , and Buttercup ; although , to be sure , such titles might better suit a group of fairies than a company of earthly children .
It is not to be supposed that these little folks were to be permitted by their careful fathers and mothers , uncles , aunts , or grandparents , to stray abroad into the woods and fields , without the guardianship of some particularly grave and elderly person .
O no , indeed !
In the first sentence of my book , you will recollect that I spoke of a tall youth , standing in the midst of the children .
His name -- , and I shall let you know his real name , because he considers it a great honor to have told the stories that are here to be printed , -- his name was Eustace Bright .
He was a student at Williams College , and had reached , I think , at this period , the venerable age of eighteen -- years ; so that he felt quite like a grandfather towards Periwinkle , Dandelion , Huckleberry , Squash-blossom , Milkweed , and the rest , who were only half or a third as venerable as he .
A trouble in his eyesight , such as many students think it necessary to have , nowadays , in order to prove their diligence at their books , had kept him from college a week or two after the beginning of the term .
But , for my part , I have seldom met with a pair of eyes that looked as if they could see farther or better than those of Eustace Bright .
This learned student was slender , and rather pale , as all Yankee students are ; but yet of a healthy aspect , and as light and active as if he had wings to his shoes .
By the by , being much addicted to wading through streamlets and across meadows , he had put on cowhide boots for the expedition .
He wore a linen blouse , a cloth cap , and a pair of green spectacles , which he had assumed , probably , less for the preservation of his eyes , than for the dignity that they imparted to his countenance .
In either case , however , he might as well have let then alone ; for Huckleberry , a mischievous little elf , crept behind Eustace as he sat on the steps of the porch , snatched the spectacles from his nose , and clapped them on her own ; and as the student forgot to take them back , they fell off into the grass , and lay there till the next spring .
Now , Eustace Bright , you must know , had won great fame among the children , as a narrator of wonderful stories ; and though he sometimes pretended to be annoyed , when they teased him for more , and more , and always for more , yet I really doubt whether he liked anything quite so well as to tell them .
You might have seen his eyes twinkle , therefore , when Clover , Sweet Fern , Cowslip , Buttercup , and most of their playmates , besought him to relate one of his stories , while they were waiting for the mist to clear up .
`` Yes , Cousin Eustace , '' said Primrose , who was a bright girl of twelve , with laughing eyes , and a nose that turned up a little , `` the morning is certainly the best time for the stories with which you so often tire out our patience .
We shall be in less danger of hurting your feelings , by falling asleep at the most interesting points , -- as little Cowslip and I did last night ! ''
`` Naughty Primrose , '' cried Cowslip , a child of six years old ; `` I did not fall asleep , and I only shut my eyes , so as to see a picture of what Cousin Eustace was telling about .
His stories are good to hear at night , because we can dream about them asleep ; and good in the morning , too , because then we can dream about them awake .
So I hope he will tell us one this very minute . ''
`` Thank you , my little Cowslip , '' said Eustace ; `` certainly you shall have the best story I can think of , if it were only for defending me so well from that naughty Primrose .
But , children , I have already told you so many fairy tales , that I doubt whether there is a single one which you have not heard at least twice over .
I am afraid you will fall asleep in reality , if I repeat any of them again . ''
`` No , no , no ! ''
cried Blue Eye , Periwinkle , Plantain , and half a dozen others .
`` We like a story all the better for having heard it two or three tunes before . ''
And it is a truth , as regards children , that a story seems often to deepen its mark in their interest , not merely by two or three , but by numberless repetitions .
But Eustace Bright , in the exuberance of his resources , scorned to avail himself of an advantage which an older story-teller would have been glad to grasp at .
`` It would be a great pity , '' said he , `` if a man of my learning , to say nothing of original fancy , could not find a new story every day , year in and year out , for children such as you .
I will tell you one of the nursery tales that were made for the amusement of our great old grandmother , the Earth , when she was a child in frock and pinafore .
There are a hundred such ; and it is a wonder to me that they have not long ago been put into picture-books for little girls and boys .
But , instead of that , old gray-bearded grandsires pore over them , in musty volumes of Greek , and puzzle themselves with trying to find out when , and how , and for what they were made . ''
`` Well , well , well , well , Cousin Eustace ! ''
cried all the children at once ; `` talk no more about your stories , but begin . ''
`` Sit down , then , every soul of you , '' said Eustace Bright , `` and be all as still as so many mice .
At the slightest interruption , whether from great , naughty Primrose , little Dandelion , or any other , I shall bite the story short off between my teeth , and swallow the untold part .
But , in the first place , do any of you know what a Gorgon is ? ''
`` I do , '' said Primrose .
`` Then hold your tongue ! ''
rejoined Eustace , who had rather she would have known nothing about the matter .
`` Hold all your tongues , and I shall tell you a sweet pretty story of a Gorgon's head . ''
And so he did , as you may begin to read on the next page .
Working up his sophomorical erudition with a good deal of tact , and incurring great obligations to Professor Anthon , he , nevertheless , disregarded all classical authorities , whenever the vagrant audacity of his imagination impelled him to do so .
