`` It is a dreadful thing to be poor a fortnight before Christmas , '' said Clorinda , with the mournful sigh of seventeen years .
Aunt Emmy smiled .
Aunt Emmy was sixty , and spent the hours she didn't spend in a bed , on a sofa or in a wheel chair ; but Aunt Emmy was never heard to sigh .
`` I suppose it is worse then than at any other time , '' she admitted .
That was one of the nice things about Aunt Emmy .
She always sympathized and understood .
`` I 'm worse than poor this Christmas ... I 'm stony broke , '' said Clorinda dolefully .
`` My spell of fever in the summer and the consequent doctor's bills have cleaned out my coffers completely .
Not a single Christmas present can I give .
And I did so want to give some little thing to each of my dearest people .
But I simply can't afford it ... that's the hateful , ugly truth . ''
Clorinda sighed again .
`` The gifts which money can purchase are not the only ones we can give , '' said Aunt Emmy gently , `` nor the best , either . ''
`` Oh , I know it's nicer to give something of your own work , '' agreed Clorinda , `` but materials for fancy work cost too .
That kind of gift is just as much out of the question for me as any other . ''
`` That was not what I meant , '' said Aunt Emmy .
`` What did you mean , then ? ''
asked Clorinda , looking puzzled .
Aunt Emmy smiled .
`` Suppose you think out my meaning for yourself , '' she said .
`` That would be better than if I explained it .
Besides , I don't think I could explain it .
Take the beautiful line of a beautiful poem to help you in your thinking out : ` The gift without the giver is bare . ' ''
`` I 'd put it the other way and say , ` The giver without the gift is bare , ' '' said Clorinda , with a grimace .
`` That is my predicament exactly .
Well , I hope by next Christmas I'll not be quite bankrupt .
I 'm going into Mr. Callender's store down at Murraybridge in February .
He has offered me the place , you know . ''
`` Won't your aunt miss you terribly ? ''
said Aunt Emmy gravely .
Clorinda flushed .
There was a note in Aunt Emmy's voice that disturbed her .
`` Oh , yes , I suppose she will , '' she answered hurriedly .
`` But she'll get used to it very soon .
And I will be home every Saturday night , you know .
I 'm dreadfully tired of being poor , Aunt Emmy , and now that I have a chance to earn something for myself I mean to take it .
I can help Aunt Mary , too .
I 'm to get four dollars a week . ''
`` I think she would rather have your companionship than a part of your salary , Clorinda , '' said Aunt Emmy .
`` But of course you must decide for yourself , dear .
It is hard to be poor .
I know it .
I am poor . ''
`` You poor ! ''
said Clorinda , kissing her .
`` Why , you are the richest woman I know , Aunt Emmy -- rich in love and goodness and contentment . ''
`` And so are you , dearie ... rich in youth and health and happiness and ambition .
Aren't they all worth while ? ''
`` Of course they are , '' laughed Clorinda .
`` Only , unfortunately , Christmas gifts can't be coined out of them . ''
`` Did you ever try ? ''
asked Aunt Emmy .
`` Think out that question , too , in your thinking out , Clorinda . ''
`` Well , I must say bye-bye and run home .
I feel cheered up -- you always cheer people up , Aunt Emmy .
How grey it is outdoors .
I do hope we'll have snow soon .
Wouldn't it be jolly to have a white Christmas ?
We always have such faded brown Decembers . ''
Clorinda lived just across the road from Aunt Emmy in a tiny white house behind some huge willows .
But Aunt Mary lived there too -- the only relative Clorinda had , for Aunt Emmy wasn't really her aunt at all .
Clorinda had always lived with Aunt Mary ever since she could remember .
Clorinda went home and upstairs to her little room under the eaves , where the great bare willow boughs were branching athwart her windows .
She was thinking over what Aunt Emmy had said about Christmas gifts and giving .
`` I 'm sure I don't know what she could have meant , '' pondered Clorinda .
`` I do wish I could find out if it would help me any .
I 'd love to remember a few of my friends at least .
There's Miss Mitchell ... she's been so good to me all this year and helped me so much with my studies .
And there's Mrs. Martin out in Manitoba .
If I could only send her something !
She must be so lonely out there .
And Aunt Emmy herself , of course ; and poor old Aunt Kitty down the lane ; and Aunt Mary and , yes -- Florence too , although she did treat me so meanly .
I shall never feel the same to her again .
But she gave me a present last Christmas , and so out of mere politeness I ought to give her something . ''
Clorinda stopped short suddenly .
She had just remembered that she would not have liked to say that last sentence to Aunt Emmy .
Therefore , there was something wrong about it .
Clorinda had long ago learned that there was sure to be something wrong in anything that could not be said to Aunt Emmy .
So she stopped to think it over .
Clorinda puzzled over Aunt Emmy's meaning for four days and part of three nights .
Then all at once it came to her .
Or if it wasn't Aunt Emmy's meaning it was a very good meaning in itself , and it grew clearer and expanded in meaning during the days that followed , although at first Clorinda shrank a little from some of the conclusions to which it led her .
`` I've solved the problem of my Christmas giving for this year , '' she told Aunt Emmy .
`` I have some things to give after all .
Some of them quite costly , too ; that is , they will cost me something , but I know I'll be better off and richer after I've paid the price .
That is what Mr. Grierson would call a paradox , isn't it ?
I'll explain all about it to you on Christmas Day . ''
On Christmas Day , Clorinda went over to Aunt Emmy's .
It was a faded brown Christmas after all , for the snow had not come .
But Clorinda did not mind ; there was such joy in her heart that she thought it the most delightful Christmas Day that ever dawned .
She put the queer cornery armful she carried down on the kitchen floor before she went into the sitting room .
Aunt Emmy was lying on the sofa before the fire , and Clorinda sat down beside her .
`` I've come to tell you all about it , '' she said .
Aunt Emmy patted the hand that was in her own .
`` From your face , dear girl , it will be pleasant hearing and telling , '' she said .
Clorinda nodded .
`` Aunt Emmy , I thought for days over your meaning ... thought until I was dizzy .
And then one evening it just came to me , without any thinking at all , and I knew that I could give some gifts after all .
I thought of something new every day for a week .
At first I didn't think I could give some of them , and then I thought how selfish I was .
I would have been willing to pay any amount of money for gifts if I had had it , but I wasn't willing to pay what I had .
I got over that , though , Aunt Emmy .
Now I 'm going to tell you what I did give .
`` First , there was my teacher , Miss Mitchell .
I gave her one of father's books .
I have so many of his , you know , so that I wouldn't miss one ; but still it was one I loved very much , and so I felt that that love made it worth while .
That is , I felt that on second thought .
At first , Aunt Emmy , I thought I would be ashamed to offer Miss Mitchell a shabby old book , worn with much reading and all marked over with father's notes and pencillings .
I was afraid she would think it queer of me to give her such a present .
And yet somehow it seemed to me that it was better than something brand new and unmellowed -- that old book which father had loved and which I loved .
So I gave it to her , and she understood .
I think it pleased her so much , the real meaning in it .
She said it was like being given something out of another's heart and life .
`` Then you know Mrs. Martin ... last year she was Miss Hope , my dear Sunday School teacher .
She married a home missionary , and they are in a lonely part of the west .
Well , I wrote her a letter .
Not just an ordinary letter ; dear me , no .
I took a whole day to write it , and you should have seen the postmistress's eyes stick out when I mailed it .
I just told her everything that had happened in Greenvale since she went away .
I made it as newsy and cheerful and loving as I possibly could .
Everything bright and funny I could think of went into it .
`` The next was old Aunt Kitty .
You know she was my nurse when I was a baby , and she's very fond of me .
But , well , you know , Aunt Emmy , I 'm ashamed to confess it , but really I've never found Aunt Kitty very entertaining , to put it mildly .
She is always glad when I go to see her , but I've never gone except when I couldn't help it .
She is very deaf , and rather dull and stupid , you know .
Well , I gave her a whole day .
I took my knitting yesterday , and sat with her the whole time and just talked and talked .
I told her all the Greenvale news and gossip and everything else I thought she 'd like to hear .
She was so pleased and proud ; she told me when I came away that she hadn't had such a nice time for years .
`` Then there was ... Florence .
You know , Aunt Emmy , we were always intimate friends until last year .
Then Florence once told Rose Watson something I had told her in confidence .
I found it out and I was so hurt .
I couldn't forgive Florence , and I told her plainly I could never be a real friend to her again .
Florence felt badly , because she really did love me , and she asked me to forgive her , but it seemed as if I couldn't .
Well , Aunt Emmy , that was my Christmas gift to her ... my forgiveness .
I went down last night and just put my arms around her and told her that I loved her as much as ever and wanted to be real close friends again .
`` I gave Aunt Mary her gift this morning .
I told her I wasn't going to Murraybridge , that I just meant to stay home with her .
She was so glad -- and I 'm glad , too , now that I've decided so . ''
`` Your gifts have been real gifts , Clorinda , '' said Aunt Emmy .
`` Something of you -- the best of you -- went into each of them . ''
Clorinda went out and brought her cornery armful in .
`` I didn't forget you , Aunt Emmy , '' she said , as she unpinned the paper .
There was a rosebush -- Clorinda's own pet rosebush -- all snowed over with fragrant blossoms .
Aunt Emmy loved flowers .
She put her finger under one of the roses and kissed it .
`` It's as sweet as yourself , dear child , '' she said tenderly .
`` And it will be a joy to me all through the lonely winter days .
You've found out the best meaning of Christmas giving , haven't you , dear ? ''
`` Yes , thanks to you , Aunt Emmy , '' said Clorinda softly .
