Johnny Chuck sat on the doorstep of his new home , looking away across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck felt very well satisfied with himself and with all the world .
He yawned lazily and stretched and stretched and then settled himself comfortably to watch the Merry Little Breezes playing down by the Smiling Pool .
By and by he saw Peter Rabbit go bobbing along down the Lone Little Path .
Lipperty , lipperty , lip , went Peter Rabbit and every other jump he looked behind him .
`` Now what is Peter Rabbit up to ? ''
said Johnny Chuck to himself , `` and what does he keep looking behind him for ? ''
Johnny Chuck sat up a little straighter to watch Peter Rabbit hop down the Lone Little Path .
Then of a sudden he caught sight of something that made him sit up straighter than ever and open his eyes very wide .
Something was following Peter Rabbit .
Yes , Sir , something was bobbing along right at Peter Rabbit's heels .
Johnny Chuck forgot the Merry Little Breezes .
He forgot how warm it was and how lazy he felt .
He forgot everything else in his curiosity to learn what it could be following so closely at Peter Rabbit's heels .
Presently Peter Rabbit stopped and sat up very straight and then -- Johnny Chuck nearly tumbled over in sheer surprise !
He rubbed his eyes to make sure that he saw aright , for there were two Peter Rabbits !
Yes , Sir , there were two Peter Rabbits , only one was very small , very small indeed .
`` Oh ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , `` that must be Peter Rabbit's baby brother ! ''
Then he began to chuckle till his fat sides shook .
There sat Peter Rabbit with his funny long ears standing straight up , and there right behind him , dressed exactly like him , sat Peter Rabbit's baby brother with his funny little long ears standing straight up .
When Peter Rabbit wiggled his right ear , his baby brother wiggled his right ear .
When Peter Rabbit scratched his left ear , his baby brother scratched his left ear .
Whatever Peter Rabbit did , his baby brother did too .
Presently Peter Rabbit started on down the Lone Little Path -- lipperty , lipperty , lip , and right at his heels went his baby brother -- lipperty , lipperty , lip .
Johnny Chuck watched them out of sight , and then he settled himself on his doorstep once more to enjoy a sun bath .
Every once in a while he chuckled to himself as he remembered how funny Peter Rabbit's baby brother had looked .
Presently Johnny Chuck fell asleep .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had climbed quite high in the sky when Johnny Chuck awoke .
He yawned and stretched and stretched and yawned , and then he sat up to look over the Green Meadows .
Then he became wide awake , very wide awake indeed !
Way down on the Green Meadows he caught a glimpse of something red jumping about in the long meadow grass .
`` That must be Reddy Fox , '' thought Johnny Chuck .
`` Yes , it surely is Reddy Fox .
Now I wonder what mischief he is up to . ''
Then he saw all the Merry Little Breezes racing towards Reddy Fox as fast as they could go .
And there was Sammy Jay screaming at the top of his voice , and his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Happy Jack Squirrel was dancing up and down excitedly on the branch of an old elm close by .
Johnny Chuck waited to see no more , but started down the Lone Little Path to find out what it all was about .
Half way down the Lone Little Path he met Peter Rabbit running as hard as he could .
His long ears were laid flat back , his big eyes seemed to pop right out of his head , and he was running as Johnny Chuck had never seen him run before .
`` What are you running so for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` To get Bowser the Hound , '' shouted Peter Rabbit over his shoulder , as he tried to run faster .
`` Now what can be the matter ? ''
said Johnny Chuck to himself , `` to send Peter Rabbit after Bowser the Hound ? ''
He knew that , like all the other little meadow people , there was nothing of which Peter Rabbit was so afraid as Farmer Brown's great dog , Bowser the Hound .
Johnny Chuck hurried down the Lone Little Path as fast as his short legs could take his fat , rolly-poly self .
Presently he came out onto the Green Meadows , and there he saw a sight that set every nerve in his round little body a-tingle with rage .
Reddy Fox had found Peter Rabbit's baby brother and was doing his best to frighten him to death .
`` I 'm going to eat you now , '' shouted Reddy Fox , and then he sprang on Peter Rabbit's baby brother and gave him a cuff that sent him heels over head sprawling in the grass .
`` Coward !
Coward , Reddy Fox ! ''
shrieked Sammy Jay .
`` Shame !
Shame ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` You 're nothing but a great big bully ! ''
yelled Blacky the Crow .
But no one did anything to help Peter Rabbit's baby brother , for Reddy Fox is so much bigger than any of the rest of them , except Bobby Coon , that all the little meadow people are afraid of him .
But Reddy Fox just laughed at them , and nipped the long ears of Peter Rabbit's little brother so hard that he cried with the pain .
Now all were so intent watching Reddy Fox torment the baby brother of Peter Rabbit that no one had seen Johnny Chuck coming down the Lone Little Path .
And for a few minutes no one recognized the furious little yellow-brown bundle that suddenly knocked Reddy Fox over and seized him by the throat .
You see it didn't look a bit like Johnny Chuck .
Every hair was standing on end , he was so mad , and this made him appear twice as big as they had ever seen him before .
`` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
shrieked Johnny Chuck as he shook Reddy Fox by the throat .
And then began the greatest fight that the Green Meadows had ever seen .
Now Johnny Chuck is not naturally a fighter .
Oh my , no !
He is so good-natured and so sunny-hearted that he seldom quarrels with any one .
But when he has to fight , there isn't a cowardly hair on him , not the teeniest , weeniest one .
No one ever has a chance to cry , '' ` Fraid cat !
Cry baby ! ''
after Johnny Chuck .
So though , like all the other little meadow people , he was usually just a little afraid of Reddy Fox , because Reddy is so much bigger , he forgot all about it as soon as he caught sight of Reddy Fox tormenting Peter Rabbit's little brother .
He didn't stop to think of what might happen to himself .
He didn't stop to think at all .
He just gritted his teeth and in a flash had Reddy Fox on his back .
Such a fight was never seen before on the Green Meadows !
Reddy Fox is a bully and a coward , for he never fights with any one of his own size if he can help it , but when he has to fight , he fights hard .
And he certainly had to fight now .
`` Bully ! ''
hissed Johnny Chuck as with his stout little hind feet he ripped the bright red coat of Reddy Fox .
`` You great big bully ! ''
Over and over they rolled , Johnny Chuck on top , then Reddy Fox on top , then Johnny Chuck up again , clawing and snarling .
It seemed as if news of the fight had gone over all the Green Meadows , for the little meadow people came running from every direction -- Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Striped Chipmunk , Jimmy Skunk , old Mr. Toad .
Even Great-Grandfather Frog , who left his big lily pad , and came hurrying with great jumps across the Green Meadows .
They formed a ring around Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck and danced with excitement .
And all wanted Johnny Chuck to win .
Peter Rabbit's poor little brother , so sore and lame from the knocking about from Reddy Fox , and so frightened that he hardly dared breathe , lay flat on the ground under a little bush and was forgotten by all but the Merry Little Breezes , who covered him up with some dead grass , and kissed him and whispered to him not to be afraid now .
How Peter Rabbit's little brother did hope that Johnny Chuck would win !
His great , big , round , soft eyes were wide with terror as he thought of what might happen to him if Reddy Fox should whip Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox wasn't whipping Johnny Chuck .
Try as he would , he could not get a good hold on that round , fat , little body .
And Johnny Chuck's stout claws were ripping his red coat and white vest and Johnny Chuck's sharp teeth were gripping him so that they could not be shaken loose .
Pretty soon Reddy Fox began to think of nothing but getting away .
Every one was shouting for Johnny Chuck .
Every time Reddy Fox was underneath , he would hear a great shout from all the little meadow people , and he knew that they were glad .
Now Johnny Chuck was round and fat and rolly-poly , and when one is round and fat and rolly-poly , one's breath is apt to be short .
So it was with Johnny Chuck .
He had fought so hard that his breath was nearly gone .
Finally he loosed his hold on Reddy Fox for just a second to draw in a good breath .
Reddy Fox saw his chance , and , with a quick pull and spring , he broke away .
How all the little meadow people did scatter !
You see they were very brave , very brave indeed , so long as Johnny Chuck had Reddy Fox down , but now that Reddy Fox was free , each one was suddenly afraid and thought only of himself .
Jimmy Skunk knocked Jerry Muskrat flat in his hurry to get away .
Billy Mink trod on Great-Grandfather Frog's big feet and didn't even say `` Excuse me . ''
Striped Chipmunk ran head first into a big thistle and squealed as much from fear as pain .
But Reddy Fox paid no attention to any of them .
He just wanted to get away , and off he started , limping as fast as he could go up the Lone Little Path .
Such a looking sight !
His beautiful red coat was in tatters .
His face was scratched .
He hobbled as he ran .
And just as he broke away , Johnny Chuck made a grab and pulled a great mouthful of hair out of the splendid tail Reddy Fox was so proud of .
When the little meadow people saw that Reddy Fox was actually running away , they stopped running themselves , and all began to shout : `` Reddy Fox is a coward and a bully !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
Then they crowded around Johnny Chuck and all began talking at once about his great fight .
Just then they heard a great noise up on the hill .
They saw Reddy Fox coming back down the Lone Little Path , and he was using his legs just as well as he knew how .
Right behind him , his great mouth open and waking all the echoes with his big voice , was Bowser the Hound .
You see , although Peter Rabbit couldn't fight for his little baby brother and is usually very , very timid , he isn't altogether a coward .
Indeed , he had been very brave , very brave indeed .
He had gone up to Farmer Brown's and had jumped right under the nose of Bowser the Hound .
Now that is something that Bowser the Hound never can stand .
So off he had started after Peter Rabbit .
And Peter Rabbit had started back for the Green Meadows as fast as his long legs could take him , for he knew that if once Bowser the Hound caught sight of Reddy Fox , he would forget all about such a little thing as a saucy rabbit .
Sure enough , half way down the Lone Little Path they met Reddy Fox sneaking off home , and , when Bowser the Hound saw him , he straightway forgot all about Peter Rabbit , and , with a great roar , started after Reddy Fox .
When Johnny Chuck had carefully brushed his coat and all the little meadow people had wished him good luck , he started off up the Lone Little Path for home , the Merry Little Breezes dancing ahead and Peter Rabbit coming lipperty , lipperty , lip behind , and right between them hopped Peter Rabbit's little brother , who thought Johnny Chuck the greatest hero in the world .
When they reached Johnny Chuck's old home , Peter Rabbit and Peter Rabbit's little brother tried to tell him how thankful they were to him , but Johnny Chuck just laughed and said : `` It was nothing at all , just nothing at all . ''
When at last all had gone , even the Merry Little Breezes , Johnny Chuck slipped away to his new home , which is his secret , you know , which no one knows but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who won't tell .
`` I hope , '' said Johnny Chuck , as he stretched himself out on the mound of warm sand by his doorway , for he was very tired , `` I hope , '' said Johnny Chuck , sighing contentedly , `` that Reddy Fox got away from Bowser the Hound ! ''
And Reddy Fox did .
