`` You might as well try to move the rock of Gibraltar as attempt to change Uncle Abimelech 's mind when it is once made up , '' said Murray gloomily .
Murray is like dear old Dad ; he gets discouraged rather easily .
Now , I 'm not like that ; I 'm more like Mother 's folks .
As Uncle Abimelech has never failed to tell me when I have annoyed him , I 'm `` all Foster . ''
Uncle Abimelech doesn't like the Fosters .
But I 'm glad I take after them .
If I had folded my hands and sat down meekly when Uncle Abimelech made known his good will and pleasure regarding Murray and me after Father 's death , Murray would never have got to college -- nor I either , for that matter .
Only I wouldn't have minded that very much .
I just wanted to go to college because Murray did .
I couldn't be separated from him .
We were twins and had always been together .
As for Uncle Abimelech 's mind , I knew that he never had been known to change it .
But , as he himself was fond of saying , there has to be a first time for everything , and I had determined that this was to be the first time for him .
I hadn't any idea how I was going to bring it about ; but it just had to be done , and I 'm not `` all Foster '' for nothing .
I knew I would have to depend on my own thinkers .
Murray is clever at books and dissecting dead things , but he couldn't help me out in this , even if he hadn't settled beforehand that there was no use in opposing Uncle Abimelech .
`` I 'm going up to the garret to think this out , Murray , '' I said solemnly .
`` don't let anybody disturb me , and if Uncle Abimelech comes over don't tell him where I am .
If I don't come down in time to get tea , get it yourself .
I shall not leave the garret until I have thought of some way to change Uncle Abimelech 's mind . ''
`` Then you'll be a prisoner there for the term of your natural life , dear sis , '' said Murray sceptically .
`` You 're a clever girl , Prue -- and you've got enough decision for two -- but you'll never get the better of Uncle Abimelech . ''
`` we'll see , '' I said resolutely , and up to the garret I went .
I shut the door and bolted it good and fast to make sure .
Then I piled some old cushions in the window seat -- for one might as well be comfortable when one is thinking as not -- and went over the whole ground from the beginning .
Outside the wind was thrashing the broad , leafy top of the maple whose tallest twigs reached to the funny grey eaves of our old house .
One roly-poly little sparrow blew or flew to the sill and sat there for a minute , looking at me with knowing eyes .
Down below I could see Murray in a corner of the yard , pottering over a sick duck .
He had set its broken leg and was nursing it back to health .
Anyone except Uncle Abimelech could see that Murray was simply born to be a doctor and that it was flying in the face of Providence to think of making him anything else .
From the garret windows I could see all over the farm , for the house is on the hill end of it .
I could see all the dear old fields and the spring meadow and the beech woods in the southwest corner .
And beyond the orchard were the two grey barns and down below at the right-hand corner was the garden with all my sweet peas fluttering over the fences and trellises like a horde of butterflies .
It was a dear old place and both Murray and I loved every stick and stone on it , but there was no reason why we should go on living there when Murray didn't like farming .
And it wasn't our own , anyhow .
It all belonged to Uncle Abimelech .
Father and Murray and I had always lived here together .
Father 's health broke down during his college course .
That was one reason why Uncle Abimelech was set against Murray going to college , although Murray is as chubby and sturdy a fellow as you could wish to see .
Anybody with Foster in him would be that .
To go back to Father .
The doctors told him that his only chance of recovering his strength was an open-air life , so Father rented one of Uncle Abimelech 's farms and there he lived for the rest of his days .
He did not get strong again until it was too late for college , and he was a square peg in a round hole all his life , as he used to tell us .
Mother died before we could remember , so Murray and Dad and I were everything to each other .
We were very happy too , although we were bossed by Uncle Abimelech more or less .
But he meant it well and Father didn't mind .
Then Father died -- oh , that was a dreadful time !
I hurried over it in my thinking-out .
Of course when Murray and I came to look our position squarely in the face we found that we were dependent on Uncle Abimelech for everything , even the roof over our heads .
We were literally as poor as church mice and even poorer , for at least they get churches rent-free .
Murray 's heart was set on going to college and studying medicine .
He asked Uncle Abimelech to lend him enough money to get a start with and then he could work his own way along and pay back the loan in due time .
Uncle Abimelech is rich , and Murray and I are his nearest relatives .
But he simply wouldn't listen to Murray 's plan .
`` I put my foot firmly down on such nonsense , '' he said .
`` And you know that when I put my foot down something squashes . ''
It was not that Uncle Abimelech was miserly or that he grudged us assistance .
Not at all .
He was ready to deal generously by us , but it must be in his own way .
His way was this .
Murray and I were to stay on the farm , and when Murray was twenty-one Uncle Abimelech said he would deed the farm to him -- make him a present of it out and out .
`` It 's a good farm , Murray , '' he said .
`` Your father never made more than a bare living out of it because he wasn't strong enough to work it properly -- that 's what he got out of a college course , by the way .
But you are strong enough and ambitious enough to do well . ''
But Murray couldn't be a farmer , that was all there was to it .
I told Uncle Abimelech so , firmly , and I talked to him for days about it , but Uncle Abimelech never wavered .
He sat and listened to me with a quizzical smile on that handsome , clean-shaven , ruddy old face of his , with its cut-granite features .
And in the end he said , `` You ought to be the one to go to college if either of you did , Prue .
You would make a capital lawyer , if I believed in the higher education of women , but I don't .
Murray can take or leave the farm as he chooses .
If he prefers the latter alternative , well and good .
But he gets no help from me .
You 're a foolish little girl , Prue , to back him up in this nonsense of his . ''
It makes me angry to be called a little girl when I put up my hair a year ago , and Uncle Abimelech knows it .
I gave up arguing with him .
I knew it was no use anyway .
I thought it all over in the garret .
But no way out of the dilemma could I see .
I had eaten up all the apples I had brought with me and I felt flabby and disconsolate .
The sight of Uncle Abimelech stalking up the lane , as erect and lordly as usual , served to deepen my gloom .
I picked up the paper my apples had been wrapped in and looked it over gloomily .
Then I saw something , and Uncle Abimelech was delivered into my hand .
The whole plan of campaign unrolled itself before me , and I fairly laughed in glee , looking out of the garret window right down on the little bald spot on the top of Uncle Abimelech 's head , as he stood laying down the law to Murray about something .
When Uncle Abimelech had gone I went down to Murray .
`` Buddy , '' I said , `` I've thought of a plan .
I 'm not going to tell you what it is , but you are to consent to it without knowing .
I think it will quench Uncle Abimelech , but you must have perfect confidence in me .
You must back me up no matter what I do and let me have my own way in it all . ''
`` All right , sis , '' said Murray .
`` That isn't solemn enough , '' I protested .
`` I 'm serious .
Promise solemnly . ''
`` I promise solemnly , ` cross my heart , ' '' said Murray , looking like an owl .
`` Very well .
Remember that your role is to lie low and say nothing , like Brer Rabbit .
Alloway 's Anodyne Liniment is pretty good stuff , isn't it , Murray ?
It cured your sprain after you had tried everything else , didn't it ? ''
`` Yes .
But I don't see the connection . ''
`` It isn't necessary that you should .
Well , what with your sprain and my rheumatics I think I can manage it . ''
`` Look here , Prue .
Are you sure that long brooding over our troubles up in the garret hasn't turned your brain ? ''
`` My brain is all right .
Now leave me , minion .
There is that which I would do . ''
Murray grinned and went .
I wrote a letter , took it down to the office , and mailed it .
For a week there was nothing more to do .
There is just one trait of Uncle Abimelech 's disposition more marked than his fondness for having his own way and that one thing is family pride .
The Melvilles are a very old family .
The name dates back to the Norman conquest when a certain Roger de Melville , who was an ancestor of ours , went over to England with William the Conqueror .
I don't think the Melvilles ever did anything worth recording in history since .
To be sure , as far back as we can trace , none of them has ever done anything bad either .
They have been honest , respectable folks and I think that is something worth being proud of .
But Uncle Abimelech pinned his family pride to Roger de Melville .
He had the Melville coat of arms and our family tree , made out by an eminent genealogist , framed and hung up in his library , and he would not have done anything that would not have chimed in with that coat of arms and a conquering ancestor for the world .
At the end of a week I got an answer to my letter .
It was what I wanted .
I wrote again and sent a parcel .
In three weeks ' time the storm burst .
One day I saw Uncle Abimelech striding up the lane .
He had a big newspaper clutched in his hand .
I turned to Murray , who was poring over a book of anatomy in the corner .
`` Murray , Uncle Abimelech is coming .
There is going to be a battle royal between us .
Allow me to remind you of your promise . ''
`` To lie low and say nothing ?
That 's the cue , isn't it , sis ? ''
`` Unless Uncle Abimelech appeals to you .
In that case you are to back me up . ''
Then Uncle Abimelech stalked in .
He was purple with rage .
Old Roger de Melville himself never could have looked fiercer .
I did feel a quake or two , but I faced Uncle Abimelech undauntedly .
No use in having your name on the roll of Battle Abbey if you can't stand your ground .
`` Prudence , what does this mean ? ''
thundered Uncle Abimelech , as he flung the newspaper down on the table .
Murray got up and peered over .
Then he whistled .
He started to say something but remembered just in time and stopped .
But he did give me a black look .
Murray has a sneaking pride of name too , although he won't own up to it and laughs at Uncle Abimelech .
I looked at the paper and began to laugh .
We did look so funny , Murray and I , in that advertisement .
It took up the whole page .
At the top were our photos , half life-size , and underneath our names and addresses printed out in full .
Below was the letter I had written to the Alloway Anodyne Liniment folks .
It was a florid testimonial to the virtues of their liniment .
I said that it had cured Murray 's sprain after all other remedies had failed and that , when I had been left a partial wreck from a very bad attack of rheumatic fever , the only thing that restored my joints and muscles to working order was Alloway 's Anodyne Liniment , and so on .
It was all true enough , although I dare say old Aunt Sarah-from-the-Hollow 's rubbing had as much to do with the cures as the liniment .
But that is neither here nor there .
`` What does this mean , Prudence ? ''
said Uncle Abimelech again .
He was quivering with wrath , but I was as cool as a cucumber , and Murray stood like a graven image .
`` Why , that , Uncle Abimelech , '' I said calmly , `` well , it just means one of my ways of making money .
That liniment company pays for those testimonials and photos , you know .
They gave me fifty dollars for the privilege of publishing them .
Fifty dollars will pay for books and tuition for Murray and me at Kentville Academy next winter , and Mrs. Tredgold is kind enough to say she will board me for what help I can give her around the house , and wait for Murray 's until he can earn it by teaching . ''
I rattled all this off glibly before Uncle Abimelech could get in a word .
`` It 's disgraceful ! ''
he stormed .
`` Disgraceful !
Think of Sir Roger de Melville -- and a patent medicine advertisement !
Murray Melville , what were you about , sir , to let your sister disgrace herself and her family name by such an outrageous transaction ? ''
I quaked a bit .
If Murray should fail me !
But Murray was true-blue .
`` I gave Prue a free hand , sir .
It 's an honest business transaction enough -- and the family name alone won't send us to college , you know , sir . ''
Uncle Abimelech glared at us .
`` This must be put an end to , '' he said .
`` This advertisement must not appear again .
I won't have it ! ''
`` But I've signed a contract that it is to run for six months , '' I said sturdily .
`` And I've others in view .
You remember the Herb Cure you recommended one spring and that it did me so much good !
I 'm negotiating with the makers of that and -- '' `` The girl 's mad ! ''
said Uncle Abimelech .
`` Stark , staring mad ! ''
`` Oh , no , I 'm not , Uncle Abimelech .
I 'm merely a pretty good businesswoman .
You won't help Murray to go to college , so I must .
This is the only way I have , and I 'm going to see it through . ''
After Uncle Abimelech had gone , still in a towering rage , Murray remonstrated .
But I reminded him of his promise and he had to succumb .
Next day Uncle Abimelech returned -- a subdued and chastened Uncle Abimelech .
`` See here , Prue , '' he said sternly .
`` This thing must be stopped .
I say it must .
I am not going to have the name of Melville dragged all over the country in a patent medicine advertisement .
you've played your game and won it -- take what comfort you can out of the confession : If you will agree to cancel this notorious contract of yours I'll settle it with the company -- and I'll put Murray through college -- and you too if you want to go !
Something will have to be done with you , that 's certain .
Is this satisfactory ? ''
`` Perfectly , '' I said promptly .
`` If you will add thereto your promise that you will forget and forgive , Uncle Abimelech .
There are to be no hard feelings . ''
Uncle Abimelech shrugged his shoulders .
`` In for a penny , in for a pound , '' he said .
`` Very well , Prue .
We wipe off all scores and begin afresh .
But there must be no more such doings .
you've worked your little scheme through -- trust a Foster for that !
But in future you've got to remember that in law you 're a Melville whatever you are in fact . ''
I nodded dutifully .
`` I'll remember , Uncle Abimelech , '' I promised .
After everything had been arranged and Uncle Abimelech had gone I looked at Murray .
`` Well ? ''
I said .
Murray twinkled .
`` you've accomplished the impossible , sis .
But , as Uncle Abimelech intimated -- don't you try it again . ''
