Sometimes Johnny and I wonder what would really have happened if we had never started for Cousin Pamelia's wedding .
I think that Ted would have come back some time ; but Johnny says he doesn't believe he ever would , and Johnny ought to know , because Johnny's a boy .
Anyhow , he couldn't have come back for four years .
However , we did start for the wedding and so things came out all right , and Ted said we were a pair of twin special Providences .
Johnny and I fully expected to go to Cousin Pamelia's wedding because we had always been such chums with her .
And she did write to Mother to be sure and bring us , but Father and Mother didn't want to be bothered with us .
That is the plain truth of the matter .
They are good parents , as parents go in this world ; I don't think we could have picked out much better , all things considered ; but Johnny and I have always known that they never want to take us with them anywhere if they can get out of it .
Uncle Fred says that it is no wonder , since we are a pair of holy terrors for getting into mischief and keeping everybody in hot water .
But I think we are pretty good , considering all the temptations we have to be otherwise .
And , of course , twins have just twice as many as ordinary children .
Anyway , Father and Mother said we would have to stay home with Hannah Jane .
This decision came upon us , as Johnny says , like a bolt from the blue .
At first we couldn't believe they were not joking .
Why , we felt that we simply had to go to Pamelia's wedding .
We had never been to a wedding in our lives and we were just aching to see what it would be like .
Besides , we had written a marriage ode to Pamelia and we wanted to present it to her .
Johnny was to recite it , and he had been practising it out behind the carriage house for a week .
I wrote the most of it .
I can write poetry as slick as anything .
Johnny helped me hunt out the rhymes .
That is the hardest thing about writing poetry , it is so difficult to find rhymes .
Johnny would find me a rhyme and then I would write a line to suit it , and we got on swimmingly .
When we realized that Father and Mother meant what they said we were just too miserable to live .
When I went to bed that night I simply pulled the clothes over my face and howled quietly .
I couldn't help it when I thought of Pamelia's white silk dress and tulle veil and flower girls and all the rest .
Johnny said it was the wedding dinner he thought about .
Boys are like that , you know .
Father and Mother went away on the early morning train , telling us to be good twins and not bother Hannah Jane .
It would have been more to the point if they had told Hannah Jane not to bother us .
She worries more about our bringing up than Mother does .
I was sitting on the front doorstep after they had gone when Johnny came around the corner , looking so mysterious and determined that I knew he had thought of something splendid .
`` Sue , '' said Johnny impressively , `` if you have any real sporting blood in you now is the time to show it .
If you've enough grit we'll get to Pamelia's wedding after all . ''
`` How ? ''
I said as soon as I was able to say anything .
`` We'll just go .
We'll take the ten o'clock train .
It will get to Marsden by eleven-thirty and that'll be in plenty of time .
The wedding isn't until twelve . ''
`` But we've never been on the train alone , and we've never been to Marsden at all ! ''
I gasped .
`` Oh , of course , if you 're going to hatch up all sorts of difficulties ! ''
said Johnny scornfully .
`` I thought you had more spunk ! ''
`` Oh , I have , Johnny , '' I said eagerly .
`` I 'm all spunk .
And I'll do anything you'll do .
But won't Father and Mother be perfectly savage ? ''
`` Of course .
But we'll be there and they can't send us home again , so we'll see the wedding .
We'll be punished afterwards all right , but we'll have had the fun , don't you see ? ''
I saw .
I went right upstairs to dress , trusting everything blindly to Johnny .
I put on my best pale blue shirred silk hat and my blue organdie dress and my high-heeled slippers .
Johnny whistled when he saw me , but he never said a word ; there are times when Johnny is a duck .
We slipped away when Hannah Jane was feeding the hens .
`` I'll buy the tickets , '' explained Johnny .
`` I've got enough money left out of my last month's allowance because I didn't waste it all on candy as you did .
You'll have to pay me back when you get your next month's jink , remember .
I'll ask the conductor to tell us when we get to Marsden .
Uncle Fred's house isn't far from the station , and we'll be sure to know it by all the cherry trees round it . ''
It sounded easy , and it was easy .
We had a jolly ride , and finally the conductor came along and said , `` Here's your jumping-off place , kiddies . ''
Johnny didn't like being called a kiddy , but I saw the conductor's eye resting admiringly on my blue silk hat and I forgave him .
Marsden was a pretty little village , and away up the road we saw Uncle Fred's place , for it was fairly smothered in cherry trees all white with lovely bloom .
We started for it as fast as we could go , for we knew we had no time to lose .
It is perfectly dreadful trying to hurry when you have on high-heeled shoes , but I said nothing and just tore along , for I knew Johnny would have no sympathy for me .
We finally reached the house and turned in at the open gate of the lawn .
I thought everything looked very peaceful and quiet for a wedding to be under way and I had a sickening idea that it was too late and it was all over .
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Johnny , cross as a bear , because he was really afraid of it too .
`` I suppose everybody is inside the house .
No , there are two people over there by that bench .
Let us go and ask them if this is the right place , because if it isn't we have no time to lose . ''
We ran across the lawn to the two people .
One of them was a young lady , the very prettiest young lady I had ever seen .
She was tall and stately , just like the heroine in a book , and she had lovely curly brown hair and big blue eyes and the most dazzling complexion .
But she looked very cross and disdainful and I knew the minute I saw her that she had been quarrelling with the young man .
He was standing in front of her and he was as handsome as a prince .
But he looked angry too .
Altogether , you never saw a crosser-looking couple .
Just as we came up we heard the young lady say , `` What you ask is ridiculous and impossible , Ted .
I can't get married at two days ' notice and I don't mean to be . ''
And he said , `` Very well , Una , I am sorry you think so .
You would not think so if you really cared anything for me .
It is just as well I have found out you don't .
I am going away in two days ' time and I shall not return in a hurry , Una . ''
`` I do not care if you never return , '' she said .
That was a fib and well I knew it .
But the young man didn't -- men are so stupid at times .
He swung around on one foot without replying and he would have gone in another second if he had not nearly fallen over Johnny and me .
`` Please , sir , '' said Johnny respectfully , but hurriedly .
`` We 're looking for Mr. Frederick Murray's place .
Is this it ? ''
`` No , '' said the young man a little gruffly .
`` This is Mrs. Franklin's place .
Frederick Murray lives at Marsden , ten miles away . ''
My heart gave a jump and then stopped beating .
I know it did , although Johnny says it is impossible .
`` Isn't this Marsden ? ''
cried Johnny chokily .
`` No , this is Harrowsdeane , '' said the young man , a little more mildly .
I couldn't help it .
I was tired and warm and so disappointed .
I sat right down on the rustic seat behind me and burst into tears , as the story-books say .
`` Oh , don't cry , dearie , '' said the young lady in a very different voice from the one she had used before .
She sat down beside me and put her arms around me .
`` We'll take you over to Marsden if you've got off at the wrong station . ''
`` But it will be too late , '' I sobbed wildly .
`` The wedding is to be at twelve -- and it's nearly that now -- and oh , Johnny , I do think you might try to comfort me ! ''
For Johnny had stuck his hands in his pockets and turned his back squarely on me .
I thought it so unkind of him .
I didn't know then that it was because he was afraid he was going to cry right there before everybody , and I felt deserted by all the world .
`` Tell me all about it , '' said the young lady .
So I told her as well as I could all about the wedding and how wild we were to see it and why we were running away to it .
`` And now it's all no use , '' I wailed .
`` And we'll be punished when they find out just the same .
I wouldn't mind being punished if we hadn't missed the wedding .
We've never seen a wedding -- and Pamelia was to wear a white silk dress -- and have flower girls -- and oh , my heart is just broken .
I shall never get over this -- never -- if I live to be as old as Methuselah . ''
`` What can we do for them ? ''
said the young lady , looking up at the young man and smiling a little .
She seemed to have forgotten that they had just quarrelled .
`` I can't bear to see children disappointed .
I remember my own childhood too well . ''
`` I really don't know what we can do , '' said the young man , smiling back , `` unless we get married right here and now for their sakes .
If it is a wedding they want to see and nothing else will do them , that is the only idea I can suggest . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said the young lady .
But she said it as if she would rather like to be persuaded it wasn't nonsense .
I looked up at her .
`` Oh , if you have any notion of being married I wish you would right off , '' I said eagerly .
`` Any wedding would do just as well as Pamelia's .
Please do . ''
The young lady laughed .
`` One might just as well be married at two hours ' notice as two days ' , '' she said .
`` Una , '' said the young man , bending towards her , `` will you marry me here and now ?
Don't send me away alone to the other side of the world , Una . ''
`` What on earth would Auntie say ? ''
said Una helplessly .
`` Mrs. Franklin wouldn't object if you told her you were going to be married in a balloon . ''
`` I don't see how we could arrange -- oh , Ted , it's absurd . '' ''
'T isn't .
It's highly sensible .
I'll go straight to town on my wheel for the licence and ring and I'll be back in an hour .
You can be ready by that time . ''
For a moment Una hesitated .
Then she said suddenly to me , `` What is your name , dearie ? ''
`` Sue Murray , '' I said , `` and this is my brother , Johnny .
We 're twins .
We've been twins for ten years . ''
`` Well , Sue , I 'm going to let you decide for me .
This gentleman here , whose name is Theodore Prentice , has to start for Japan in two days and will have to remain there for four years .
He received his orders only yesterday .
He wants me to marry him and go with him .
Now , I shall leave it to you to consent or refuse for me .
Shall I marry him or shall I not ? ''
`` Marry him , of course , '' said I promptly .
Johnny says she knew I would say that when she left it to me .
`` Very well , '' said Una calmly .
`` Ted , you may go for the necessaries .
Sue , you must be my bridesmaid and Johnny shall be best man .
Come , we'll go into the house and break the news to Auntie . ''
I never felt so interested and excited in my life .
It seemed too good to be true .
Una and I went into the house and there we found the sweetest , pinkest , plumpest old lady asleep in an easy-chair .
Una wakened her and said , `` Auntie , I 'm going to be married to Mr. Prentice in an hour's time . ''
That was a most wonderful old lady !
All she said was , `` Dear me ! ''
You 'd have thought Una had simply told her she was going out for a walk .
`` Ted has gone for licence and ring and minister , '' Una went on .
`` We shall be married out under the cherry trees and I'll wear my new white organdie .
We shall leave for Japan in two days .
These children are Sue and Johnny Murray who have come out to see a wedding -- any wedding .
Ted and I are getting married just to please them . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
said the old lady again .
`` This is rather sudden .
Still -- if you must .
Well , I'll go and see what there is in the house to eat . ''
She toddled away , smiling , and Una turned to me .
She was laughing , but there were tears in her eyes .
`` You blessed accidents ! ''
she said , with a little tremble in her voice .
`` If you hadn't happened just then Ted would have gone away in a rage and I might never have seen him again .
Come now , Sue , and help me dress . ''
Johnny stayed in the hall and I went upstairs with Una .
We had such an exciting time getting her dressed .
She had the sweetest white organdie you ever saw , all frills and laces .
I 'm sure Pamelia's silk couldn't have been half so pretty .
But she had no veil , and I felt rather disappointed about that .
Then there was a knock at the door and Mrs. Franklin came in , with her arms full of something all fine and misty like a lacy cobweb .
`` I've brought you my wedding veil , dearie , '' she said .
`` I wore it forty years ago .
And God bless you , dearie .
I can't stop a minute .
The boy is killing the chickens and Bridget is getting ready to broil them .
Mrs. Jenner's son across the road has just gone down to the bakery for a wedding cake . ''
With that she toddled off again .
She was certainly a wonderful old lady .
I just thought of Mother in her place .
Well , Mother would simply have gone wild entirely .
When Una was dressed she looked as beautiful as a dream .
The boy had finished killing the chickens , and Mrs. Franklin had sent him up with a basket of roses for us , and we had each the loveliest bouquet .
Before long Ted came back with the minister , and the next thing we knew we were all standing out on the lawn under the cherry trees and Una and Ted were being married .
I was too happy to speak .
I had never thought of being a bridesmaid in my wildest dreams and here I was one .
How thankful I was that I had put on my blue organdie and my shirred hat !
I wasn't a bit nervous and I don't believe Una was either .
Mrs. Franklin stood at one side with a smudge of flour on her nose , and she had forgotten to take off her apron .
Bridget and the boy watched us from the kitchen garden .
It was all like a beautiful , bewildering dream .
But the ceremony was horribly solemn .
I am sure I shall never have the courage to go through with anything of the sort , but Johnny says I will change my mind when I grow up .
When it was all over I nudged Johnny and said `` Ode '' in a fierce whisper .
Johnny immediately stepped out before Una and recited it .
Pamelia's name was mentioned three times and of course he should have put Una in place of it , but he forgot .
You can't remember everything .
`` You dear funny darlings ! ''
said Una , kissing us both .
Johnny didn't like that , but he said he didn't mind it in a bride .
Then we had dinner , and I thought Mrs. Franklin more wonderful than ever .
I couldn't have believed any woman could have got up such a spread at two hours ' notice .
Of course , some credit must be given to Bridget and the boy .
Johnny and I were hungry enough by this time and we enjoyed that repast to the full .
We went home on the evening train .
Ted and Una came to the station with us , and Una said she would write me when she got to Japan , and Ted said he would be obliged to us forever and ever .
When we got home we found Hannah Jane and Father and Mother -- who had arrived there an hour before us -- simply distracted .
They were so glad to see us safe and sound that they didn't even scold us , and when Father heard our story he laughed until the tears came into his eyes .
