ONCE upon a time , two little Fairies went out into the world , to seek their fortune .
Thistledown was as gay and gallant a little Elf as ever spread a wing .
His purple mantle , and doublet of green , were embroidered with the brightest threads , and the plume in his cap came always from the wing of the gayest butterfly .
But he was not loved in Fairy-Land , for , like the flower whose name and colors he wore , though fair to look upon , many were the little thorns of cruelty and selfishness that lay concealed by his gay mantle .
Many a gentle flower and harmless bird died by his hand , for he cared for himself alone , and whatever gave him pleasure must be his , though happy hearts were rendered sad , and peaceful homes destroyed .
Such was Thistledown ; but far different was his little friend , Lily-Bell .
Kind , compassionate , and loving , wherever her gentle face was seen , joy and gratitude were found ; no suffering flower or insect , that did not love and bless the kindly Fairy ; and thus all Elf-Land looked upon her as a friend .
Nor did this make her vain and heedless of others ; she humbly dwelt among them , seeking to do all the good she might ; and many a houseless bird and hungry insect that Thistledown had harmed did she feed and shelter , and in return no evil could befall her , for so many friends were all about her , seeking to repay her tenderness and love by their watchful care .
She would not now have left Fairy-Land , but to help and counsel her wild companion , Thistledown , who , discontented with his quiet home , WOULD seek his fortune in the great world , and she feared he would suffer from his own faults for others would not always be as gentle and forgiving as his kindred .
So the kind little Fairy left her home and friends to go with him ; and thus , side by side , they flew beneath the bright summer sky .
On and on , over hill and valley , they went , chasing the gay butterflies , or listening to the bees , as they flew from flower to flower like busy little housewives , singing as they worked ; till at last they reached a pleasant garden , filled with flowers and green , old trees .
`` See , '' cried Thistledown , `` what a lovely home is here ; let us rest among the cool leaves , and hear the flowers sing , for I am sadly tired and hungry . ''
So into the quiet garden they went , and the winds gayly welcomed them , while the flowers nodded on their stems , offering their bright leaves for the Elves to rest upon , and fresh , sweet honey to refresh them .
`` Now , dear Thistle , do not harm these friendly blossoms , '' said Lily-Bell ; `` see how kindly they spread their leaves , and offer us their dew .
It would be very wrong in you to repay their care with cruelty and pain .
You will be tender for my sake , dear Thistle . ''
Then she went among the flowers , and they bent lovingly before her , and laid their soft leaves against her little face , that she might see how glad they were to welcome one so good and gentle , and kindly offered their dew and honey to the weary little Fairy , who sat among their fragrant petals and looked smilingly on the happy blossoms , who , with their soft , low voices , sang her to sleep .
While Lily-Bell lay dreaming among the rose-leaves , Thistledown went wandering through the garden .
First he robbed the bees of their honey , and rudely shook the little flowers , that he might get the dew they had gathered to bathe their buds in .
Then he chased the bright winged flies , and wounded them with the sharp thorn he carried for a sword ; he broke the spider's shining webs , lamed the birds , and soon wherever he passed lay wounded insects and drooping flowers ; while the winds carried the tidings over the garden , and bird and blossom looked upon him as an evil spirit , and fled away or closed their leaves , lest he should harm them .
Thus he went , leaving sorrow and pain behind him , till he came to the roses where Lily-Bell lay sleeping .
There , weary of his cruel sport , he stayed to rest beneath a graceful rose-tree , where grew one blooming flower and a tiny bud .
`` Why are you so slow in blooming , little one ?
You are too old to be rocked in your green cradle longer , and should be out among your sister flowers , '' said Thistle , as he lay idly in the shadow of the tree .
`` My little bud is not yet strong enough to venture forth , '' replied the rose , as she bent fondly over it ; `` the sunlight and the rain would blight her tender form , were she to blossom now , but soon she will be fit to bear them ; till then she is content to rest beside her mother , and to wait . ''
`` You silly flower , '' said Thistledown , `` see how quickly I will make you bloom !
your waiting is all useless . ''
And speaking thus , he pulled rudely apart the folded leaves , and laid them open to the sun and air ; while the rose mother implored the cruel Fairy to leave her little bud untouched .
`` It is my first , my only one , '' said she , `` and I have watched over it with such care , hoping it would soon bloom beside me ; and now you have destroyed it .
How could you harm the little helpless one , that never did aught to injure you ? ''
And while her tears fell like summer rain , she drooped in grief above the little bud , and sadly watched it fading in the sunlight ; but Thistledown , heedless of the sorrow he had given , spread his wings and flew away .
Soon the sky grew dark , and heavy drops began to fall .
Then Thistle hastened to the lily , for her cup was deep , and the white leaves fell like curtains over the fragrant bed ; he was a dainty little Elf , and could not sleep among the clovers and bright buttercups .
But when he asked the flower to unfold her leaves and take him in , she turned her pale , soft face away , and answered sadly , `` I must shield my little drooping sisters whom you have harmed , and can not let you in . ''
Then Thistledown was very angry , and turned to find shelter among the stately roses ; but they showed their sharp thorns , and , while their rosy faces glowed with anger , told him to begone , or they would repay him for the wrong he had done their gentle kindred .
He would have stayed to harm them , but the rain fell fast , and he hurried away , saying , `` The tulips will take me in , for I have praised their beauty , and they are vain and foolish flowers . ''
But when he came , all wet and cold , praying for shelter among their thick leaves , they only laughed and said scornfully , `` We know you , and will not let you in , for you are false and cruel , and will only bring us sorrow .
You need not come to us for another mantle , when the rain has spoilt your fine one ; and do not stay here , or we will do you harm . ''
Then they waved their broad leaves stormily , and scattered the heavy drops on his dripping garments .
`` Now must I go to the humble daisies and blue violets , '' said Thistle , `` they will be glad to let in so fine a Fairy , and I shall die in this cold wind and rain . ''
So away he flew , as fast as his heavy wings would bear him , to the daisies ; but they nodded their heads wisely , and closed their leaves yet closer , saying sharply , -- `` Go away with yourself , and do not imagine we will open our leaves to you , and spoil our seeds by letting in the rain .
It serves you rightly ; to gain our love and confidence , and repay it by such cruelty !
You will find no shelter here for one whose careless hand wounded our little friend Violet , and broke the truest heart that ever beat in a flower's breast .
We are very angry with you , wicked Fairy ; go away and hide yourself . ''
`` Ah , '' cried the shivering Elf , `` where can I find shelter ?
I will go to the violets : they will forgive and take me in . ''
But the daisies had spoken truly ; the gentle little flower was dead , and her blue-eyed sisters were weeping bitterly over her faded leaves .
`` Now I have no friends , '' sighed poor Thistledown , `` and must die of cold .
Ah , if I had but minded Lily-Bell , I might now be dreaming beneath some flower's leaves . ''
`` Others can forgive and love , beside Lily-Bell and Violet , '' said a faint , sweet voice ; `` I have no little bud to shelter now , and you can enter here . ''
It was the rose mother that spoke , and Thistle saw how pale the bright leaves had grown , and how the slender stem was bowed .
Grieved , ashamed , and wondering at the flower's forgiving words , he laid his weary head on the bosom he had filled with sorrow , and the fragrant leaves were folded carefully about him .
But he could find no rest .
The rose strove to comfort him ; but when she fancied he was sleeping , thoughts of her lost bud stole in , and the little heart beat so sadly where he lay , that no sleep came ; while the bitter tears he had caused to flow fell more coldly on him than the rain without .
Then he heard the other flowers whispering among themselves of his cruelty , and the sorrow he had brought to their happy home ; and many wondered how the rose , who had suffered most , could yet forgive and shelter him .
`` Never could I forgive one who had robbed me of my children .
I could bow my head and die , but could give no happiness to one who had taken all my own , '' said Hyacinth , bending fondly over the little ones that blossomed by her side .
`` Dear Violet is not the only one who will leave us , '' sobbed little Mignonette ; `` the rose mother will fade like her little bud , and we shall lose our gentlest teacher .
Her last lesson is forgiveness ; let us show our love for her , and the gentle stranger Lily-Bell , by allowing no unkind word or thought of him who has brought us all this grief . ''
The angry words were hushed , and through the long night nothing was heard but the dropping of the rain , and the low sighs of the rose .
Soon the sunlight came again , and with it Lily-Bell seeking for Thistledown ; but he was ashamed , and stole away .
When the flowers told their sorrow to kind-hearted Lily-Bell , she wept bitterly at the pain her friend had given , and with loving words strove to comfort those whom he had grieved ; with gentle care she healed the wounded birds , and watched above the flowers he had harmed , bringing each day dew and sunlight to refresh and strengthen , till all were well again ; and though sorrowing for their dead friends , still they forgave Thistle for the sake of her who had done so much for them .
Thus , erelong , buds fairer than that she had lost lay on the rose mother's breast , and for all she had suffered she was well repaid by the love of Lily-Bell and her sister flowers .
And when bird , bee , and blossom were strong and fair again , the gentle Fairy said farewell , and flew away to seek her friend , leaving behind many grateful hearts , who owed their joy and life to her .
Meanwhile , over hill and dale went Thistledown , and for a time was kind and gentle to every living thing .
He missed sadly the little friend who had left her happy home to watch over him , but he was too proud to own his fault , and so went on , hoping she would find him .
One day he fell asleep , and when he woke the sun had set , and the dew began to fall ; the flower-cups were closed , and he had nowhere to go , till a friendly little bee , belated by his heavy load of honey , bid the weary Fairy come with him .
`` Help me to bear my honey home , and you can stay with us tonight , '' he kindly said .
So Thistle gladly went with him , and soon they came to a pleasant garden , where among the fairest flowers stood the hive , covered with vines and overhung with blossoming trees .
Glow-worms stood at the door to light them home , and as they passed in , the Fairy thought how charming it must be to dwell in such a lovely place .
The floor of wax was pure and white as marble , while the walls were formed of golden honey-comb , and the air was fragrant with the breath of flowers .
`` You can not see our Queen to-night , '' said the little bee , `` but I will show you to a bed where you can rest . ''
And he led the tired Fairy to a little cell , where on a bed of flower-leaves he folded his wings and fell asleep .
As the first ray of sunlight stole in , he was awakened by sweet music .
It was the morning song of the bees .
`` Awake !
awake !
for the earliest gleam Of golden sunlight shines On the rippling waves , that brightly flow Beneath the flowering vines .
Awake !
awake !
for the low , sweet chant Of the wild-birds ' morning hymn Comes floating by on the fragrant air , Through the forest cool and dim ; Then spread each wing , And work , and sing , Through the long , bright sunny hours ; O'er the pleasant earth We journey forth , For a day among the flowers .
`` Awake !
awake !
for the summer wind Hath bidden the blossoms unclose , Hath opened the violet's soft blue eye , And wakened the sleeping rose .
And lightly they wave on their slender stems Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , Waiting for us , as we singing come To gather our honey-dew there .
Then spread each wing , And work , and sing , Through the long , bright sunny hours ; O'er the pleasant earth We journey forth , For a day among the flowers ! ''
Soon his friend came to bid him rise , as the Queen desired to speak with him .
So , with his purple mantle thrown gracefully over his shoulder , and his little cap held respectfully in his hand , he followed Nimble-Wing to the great hall , where the Queen was being served by her little pages .
Some bore her fresh dew and honey , some fanned her with fragrant flower-leaves , while others scattered the sweetest perfumes on the air .
`` Little Fairy , '' said the Queen , `` you are welcome to my palace ; and we will gladly have you stay with us , if you will obey our laws .
We do not spend the pleasant summer days in idleness and pleasure , but each one labors for the happiness and good of all .
If our home is beautiful , we have made it so by industry ; and here , as one large , loving family , we dwell ; no sorrow , care , or discord can enter in , while all obey the voice of her who seeks to be a wise and gentle Queen to them .
If you will stay with us , we will teach you many things .
Order , patience , industry , who can teach so well as they who are the emblems of these virtues ?
`` Our laws are few and simple .
You must each day gather your share of honey , see that your cell is sweet and fresh , as you yourself must be ; rise with the sun , and with him to sleep .
You must harm no flower in doing your work , nor take more than your just share of honey ; for they so kindly give us food , it were most cruel to treat them with aught save gentleness and gratitude .
Now will you stay with us , and learn what even mortals seek to know , that labor brings true happiness ? ''
And Thistle said he would stay and dwell with them ; for he was tired of wandering alone , and thought he might live here till Lily-Bell should come , or till he was weary of the kind-hearted bees .
Then they took away his gay garments , and dressed him like themselves , in the black velvet cloak with golden bands across his breast .
`` Now come with us , '' they said .
So forth into the green fields they went , and made their breakfast among the dewy flowers ; and then till the sun set they flew from bud to blossom , singing as they went ; and Thistle for a while was happier than when breaking flowers and harming gentle birds .
But he soon grew tired of working all day in the sun , and longed to be free again .
He could find no pleasure with the industrious bees , and sighed to be away with his idle friends , the butterflies ; so while the others worked he slept or played , and then , in haste to get his share , he tore the flowers , and took all they had saved for their own food .
Nor was this all ; he told such pleasant tales of the life he led before he came to live with them , that many grew unhappy and discontented , and they who had before wished no greater joy than the love and praise of their kind Queen , now disobeyed and blamed her for all she had done for them .
Long she bore with their unkind words and deeds ; and when at length she found it was the ungrateful Fairy who had wrought this trouble in her quiet kingdom , she strove , with sweet , forgiving words , to show him all the wrong he had done ; but he would not listen , and still went on destroying the happiness of those who had done so much for him .
Then , when she saw that no kindness could touch his heart , she said : -- `` Thistledown , we took you in , a friendless stranger , fed and clothed you , and made our home as pleasant to you as we could ; and in return for all our care , you have brought discontent and trouble to my subjects , grief and care to me .
I can not let my peaceful kingdom be disturbed by you ; therefore go and seek another home .
You may find other friends , but none will love you more than we , had you been worthy of it ; so farewell . ''
And the doors of the once happy home he had disturbed were closed behind him .
Then he was very angry , and determined to bring some great sorrow on the good Queen .
So he sought out the idle , wilful bees , whom he had first made discontented , bidding them follow him , and win the honey the Queen had stored up for the winter .
`` Let us feast and make merry in the pleasant summer-time , '' said Thistle ; `` winter is far off , why should we waste these lovely days , toiling to lay up the food we might enjoy now .
Come , we will take what we have made , and think no more of what the Queen has said . ''
So while the industrious bees were out among the flowers , he led the drones to the hive , and took possession of the honey , destroying and laying waste the home of the kind bees ; then , fearing that in their grief and anger they might harm him , Thistle flew away to seek new friends .
After many wanderings , he came at length to a great forest , and here beside a still lake he stayed to rest .
Delicate wood-flowers grew near him in the deep green moss , with drooping heads , as if they listened to the soft wind singing among the pines .
Bright-eyed birds peeped at him from their nests , and many-colored insects danced above the cool , still lake .
`` This is a pleasant place , '' said Thistle ; `` it shall be my home for a while .
Come hither , blue dragon-fly , I would gladly make a friend of you , for I am all alone . ''
The dragon-fly folded his shining wings beside the Elf , listened to the tale he told , promised to befriend the lonely one , and strove to make the forest a happy home to him .
So here dwelt Thistle , and many kind friends gathered round him , for he spoke gently to them , and they knew nothing of the cruel deeds he had done ; and for a while he was happy and content .
But at length he grew weary of the gentle birds , and wild-flowers , and sought new pleasure in destroying the beauty he was tired of ; and soon the friends who had so kindly welcomed him looked upon him as an evil spirit , and shrunk away as he approached .
At length his friend the dragon-fly besought him to leave the quiet home he had disturbed .
Then Thistle was very angry , and while the dragon-fly was sleeping among the flowers that hung over the lake , he led an ugly spider to the spot , and bade him weave his nets about the sleeping insect , and bind him fast .
The cruel spider gladly obeyed the ungrateful Fairy ; and soon the poor fly could move neither leg nor wing .
Then Thistle flew away through the wood , leaving sorrow and trouble behind him .
He had not journeyed far before he grew weary , and lay down to rest .
Long he slept , and when he awoke , and tried to rise , his hands and wings were bound ; while beside him stood two strange little figures , with dark faces and garments , that rustled like withered leaves ; who cried to him , as he struggled to get free , -- `` Lie still , you naughty Fairy , you are in the Brownies ' power , and shall be well punished for your cruelty ere we let you go . ''
So poor Thistle lay sorrowfully , wondering what would come of it , and wishing Lily-Bell would come to help and comfort him ; but he had left her , and she could not help him now .
Soon a troop of Brownies came rustling through the air , and gathered round him , while one who wore an acorn-cup on his head , and was their King , said , as he stood beside the trembling Fairy , -- `` You have done many cruel things , and caused much sorrow to happy hearts ; now you are in my power , and I shall keep you prisoner till you have repented .
You can not dwell on the earth without harming the fair things given you to enjoy , so you shall live alone in solitude and darkness , till you have learned to find happiness in gentle deeds , and forget yourself in giving joy to others .
When you have learned this , I will set you free . ''
Then the Brownies bore him to a high , dark rock , and , entering a little door , led him to a small cell , dimly lighted by a crevice through which came a single gleam of sunlight ; and there , through long , long days , poor Thistle sat alone , and gazed with wistful eyes at the little opening , longing to be out on the green earth .
No one came to him , but the silent Brownies who brought his daily food ; and with bitter tears he wept for Lily-Bell , mourning his cruelty and selfishness , seeking to do some kindly deed that might atone for his wrong-doing .
A little vine that grew outside his prison rock came creeping up , and looked in through the crevice , as if to cheer the lonely Fairy , who welcomed it most gladly , and daily sprinkled its soft leaves with his small share of water , that the little vine might live , even if it darkened more and more his dim cell .
The watchful Brownies saw this kind deed , and brought him fresh flowers , and many things , which Thistle gratefully received , though he never knew it was his kindness to the vine that gained for him these pleasures .
Thus did poor Thistle strive to be more gentle and unselfish , and grew daily happier and better .
Now while Thistledown was a captive in the lonely cell , Lily-Bell was seeking him far and wide , and sadly traced him by the sorrowing hearts he had left behind .
She healed the drooping flowers , cheered the Queen Bee's grief , brought back her discontented subjects , restored the home to peace and order , and left them blessing her .
Thus she journeyed on , till she reached the forest where Thistledown had lost his freedom .
She unbound the starving dragon-fly , and tended the wounded birds ; but though all learned to love her , none could tell where the Brownies had borne her friend , till a little wind came whispering by , and told her that a sweet voice had been heard , singing Fairy songs , deep in a moss-grown rock .
Then Lily-Bell went seeking through the forest , listening for the voice .
Long she looked and listened in vain ; when one day , as she was wandering through a lonely dell , she heard a faint , low sound of music , and soon a distant voice mournfully singing , -- `` Bright shines the summer sun , Soft is the summer air ; Gayly the wood-birds sing , Flowers are blooming fair .
`` But , deep in the dark , cold rock , Sadly I dwell , Longing for thee , dear friend , Lily-Bell !
Lily-Bell ! ''
`` Thistle , dear Thistle , where are you ? ''
joyfully cried Lily-Bell , as she flew from rock to rock .
But the voice was still , and she would have looked in vain , had she not seen a little vine , whose green leaves fluttering to and fro seemed beckoning her to come ; and as she stood among its flowers she sang , -- `` Through sunlight and summer air I have sought for thee long , Guided by birds and flowers , And now by thy song .
`` Thistledown !
Thistledown !
O'er hill and dell Hither to comfort thee Comes Lily-Bell . ''
Then from the vine-leaves two little arms were stretched out to her , and Thistledown was found .
So Lily-Bell made her home in the shadow of the vine , and brought such joy to Thistle , that his lonely cell seemed pleasanter to him than all the world beside ; and he grew daily more like his gentle friend .
But it did not last long , for one day she did not come .
He watched and waited long , for the little face that used to peep smiling in through the vine-leaves .
He called and beckoned through the narrow opening , but no Lily-Bell answered ; and he wept sadly as he thought of all she had done for him , and that now he could not go to seek and help her , for he had lost his freedom by his own cruel and wicked deeds .
At last he besought the silent Brownie earnestly to tell him whither she had gone .
`` O let me go to her , '' prayed Thistle ; `` if she is in sorrow , I will comfort her , and show my gratitude for all she has done for me : dear Brownie , set me free , and when she is found I will come and be your prisoner again .
I will bear and suffer any danger for her sake . ''
`` Lily-Bell is safe , '' replied the Brownie ; `` come , you shall learn the trial that awaits you . ''
Then he led the wondering Fairy from his prison , to a group of tall , drooping ferns , beneath whose shade a large white lily had been placed , forming a little tent , within which , on a couch of thick green moss , lay Lily-Bell in a deep sleep ; the sunlight stole softly in , and all was cool and still .
`` You can not wake her , '' said the Brownie , as Thistle folded his arms tenderly about her .
`` It is a magic slumber , and she will not wake till you shall bring hither gifts from the Earth , Air , and Water Spirits . '
T is a long and weary task , for you have made no friends to help you , and will have to seek for them alone .
This is the trial we shall give you ; and if your love for Lily-Bell be strong enough to keep you from all cruelty and selfishness , and make you kind and loving as you should be , she will awake to welcome you , and love you still more fondly than before . ''
Then Thistle , with a last look on the little friend he loved so well , set forth alone to his long task .
The home of the Earth Spirits was the first to find , and no one would tell him where to look .
So far and wide he wandered , through gloomy forests and among lonely hills , with none to cheer him when sad and weary , none to guide him on his way .
On he went , thinking of Lily-Bell , and for her sake bearing all ; for in his quiet prison many gentle feelings and kindly thoughts had sprung up in his heart , and he now strove to be friends with all , and win for himself the love and confidence of those whom once he sought to harm and cruelly destroy .
But few believed him ; for they remembered his false promises and evil deeds , and would not trust him now ; so poor Thistle found few to love or care for him .
Long he wandered , and carefully he sought ; but could not find the Earth Spirits ' home .
And when at length he reached the pleasant garden where he and Lily-Bell first parted , he said within himself , -- `` Here I will stay awhile , and try to win by kindly deeds the flowers ' forgiveness for the pain and sorrow I brought them long ago ; and they may learn to love and trust me .
So , even if I never find the Spirits , I shall be worthier of Lily-Bell's affection if I strive to atone for the wrong I have done . ''
Then he went among the flowers , but they closed their leaves , and shrank away , trembling with fear ; while the birds fled to hide among the leaves as he passed .
This grieved poor Thistle , and he longed to tell them how changed he had become ; but they would not listen .
So he tried to show , by quiet deeds of kindness , that he meant no harm to them ; and soon the kind-hearted birds pitied the lonely Fairy , and when he came near sang cheering songs , and dropped ripe berries in his path , for he no longer broke their eggs , or hurt their little ones .
And when the flowers saw this , and found the once cruel Elf now watering and tending little buds , feeding hungry insects , and helping the busy ants to bear their heavy loads , they shared the pity of the birds , and longed to trust him ; but they dared not yet .
He came one day , while wandering through the garden , to the little rose he had once harmed so sadly .
Many buds now bloomed beside her , and her soft face glowed with motherly pride , as she bent fondly over them .
But when Thistle came , he saw with sorrow how she bade them close their green curtains , and conceal themselves beneath the leaves , for there was danger near ; and , drooping still more closely over them , she seemed to wait with trembling fear the cruel Fairy's coming .
But no rude hand tore her little ones away , no unkind words were spoken ; but a soft shower of dew fell lightly on them , and Thistle , bending tenderly above them , said , -- `` Dear flower , forgive the sorrow I once brought you , and trust me now for Lily-Bell's sake .
Her gentleness has changed my cruelty to kindness , and I would gladly repay all for the harm I have done ; but none will love and trust me now . ''
Then the little rose looked up , and while the dew-drops shone like happy tears upon her leaves , she said , -- `` I WILL love and trust you , Thistle , for you are indeed much changed .
Make your home among us , and my sister flowers will soon learn to love you as you deserve .
Not for sweet Lily-Bell's sake , but for your own , will I become your friend ; for you are kind and gentle now , and worthy of our love .
Look up , my little ones , there is no danger near ; look up , and welcome Thistle to our home . ''
Then the little buds raised their rosy faces , danced again upon their stems , and nodded kindly at Thistle , who smiled on them through happy tears , and kissed the sweet , forgiving rose , who loved and trusted him when most forlorn and friendless .
But the other flowers wondered among themselves , and Hyacinth said , -- `` If Rose-Leaf is his friend , surely we may be ; yet still I fear he may soon grow weary of this gentleness , and be again the wicked Fairy he once was , and we shall suffer for our kindness to him now . ''
`` Ah , do not doubt him ! ''
cried warm-hearted little Mignonette ; `` surely some good spirit has changed the wicked Thistle into this good little Elf .
See how tenderly he lifts aside the leaves that overshadow pale Harebell , and listen now how softly he sings as he rocks little Eglantine to sleep .
He has done many friendly things , though none save Rose-Leaf has been kind to him , and he is very sad .
Last night when I awoke to draw my curtains closer , he sat weeping in the moonlight , so bitterly , I longed to speak a kindly word to him .
Dear sisters , let us trust him . ''
And they all said little Mignonette was right ; and , spreading wide their leaves , they bade him come , and drink their dew , and lie among the fragrant petals , striving to cheer his sorrow .
Thistle told them all , and , after much whispering together , they said , -- `` Yes , we will help you to find the Earth Spirits , for you are striving to be good , and for love of Lily-Bell we will do much for you . ''
So they called a little bright-eyed mole , and said , `` Downy-Back , we have given you a pleasant home among our roots , and you are a grateful little friend ; so will you guide dear Thistle to the Earth Spirits ' home ? ''
Downy-Back said , `` Yes , '' and Thistle , thanking the kindly flowers , followed his little guide , through long , dark galleries , deeper and deeper into the ground ; while a glow-worm flew before to light the way .
On they went , and after a while , reached a path lit up by bright jewels hung upon the walls .
Here Downy-Back , and Glimmer , the glow-worm , left him , saying , -- `` We can lead you no farther ; you must now go on alone , and the music of the Spirits will guide you to their home . ''
Then they went quickly up the winding path , and Thistle , guided by the sweet music , went on alone .
He soon reached a lovely spot , whose golden halls were bright with jewels , which sparkled brightly , and threw many-colored shadows on the shining garments of the little Spirits , who danced below to the melody of soft , silvery bells .
Long Thistle stood watching the brilliant forms that flashed and sparkled round him ; but he missed the flowers and the sunlight , and rejoiced that he was not an Earth Spirit .
At last they spied him out , and , gladly welcoming him , bade him join in their dance .
But Thistledown was too sad for that , and when he told them all his story they no longer urged , but sought to comfort him ; and one whom they called little Sparkle , for her crown and robe shone with the brightest diamonds , said : `` You will have to work for us , ere you can win a gift to show the Brownies ; do you see those golden bells that make such music , as we wave them to and fro ?
We worked long and hard ere they were won , and you can win one of those , if you will do the task we give you . ''
And Thistle said , `` No task will be too hard for me to do for dear Lily-Bell's sake . ''
Then they led him to a strange , dark place , lit up with torches ; where troops of Spirits flew busily to and fro , among damp rocks , and through dark galleries that led far down into the earth .
`` What do they here ? ''
asked Thistle .
`` I will tell , '' replied little Sparkle , `` for I once worked here myself .
Some of them watch above the flower-roots , and keep them fresh and strong ; others gather the clear drops that trickle from the damp rocks , and form a little spring , which , growing ever larger , rises to the light above , and gushes forth in some green field or lonely forest ; where the wild-birds come to drink , and wood-flowers spread their thirsty leaves above the clear , cool waves , as they go dancing away , carrying joy and freshness wherever they go .
Others shape the bright jewels into lovely forms , and make the good-luck pennies which we give to mortals whom we love .
And here you must toil till the golden flower is won . ''
Then Thistle went among the Spirits , and joined in their tasks ; he tended the flower-roots , gathered the water-drops , and formed the good-luck pennies .
Long and hard he worked , and was often sad and weary , often tempted by unkind and selfish thoughts ; but he thought of Lily-Bell , and strove to be kind and loving as she had been ; and soon the Spirits learned to love the patient Fairy , who had left his home to toil among them for the sake of his gentle friend .
At length came little Sparkle to him , saying , `` You have done enough ; come now , and dance and feast with us , for the golden flower is won . ''
But Thistle could not stay , for half his task was not yet done ; and he longed for sunlight and Lily-Bell .
So , taking a kind farewell , he hastened through the torch-lit path up to the light again ; and , spreading his wings , flew over hill and dale till he reached the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleeping .
It was early morning , and the rosy light shone brightly through the lily-leaves upon her , as Thistle entered , and laid his first gift at the Brownie King's feet .
`` You have done well , '' said he , `` we hear good tidings of you from bird and flower , and you are truly seeking to repair the evil you have done .
Take now one look at your little friend , and then go forth to seek from the Air Spirits your second gift . ''
Then Thistle said farewell again to Lily-Bell , and flew far and wide among the clouds , seeking the Air Spirits ; but though he wandered till his weary wings could bear him no longer , it was in vain .
So , faint and sad , he lay down to rest on a broad vine-leaf , that fluttered gently in the wind ; and as he lay , he saw beneath him the home of the kind bees whom he had so disturbed , and Lily-Bell had helped and comforted .
`` I will seek to win their pardon , and show them that I am no longer the cruel Fairy who so harmed them , '' thought Thistle , `` and when they become again my friends , I will ask their help to find the Air Spirits ; and if I deserve it , they will gladly aid me on my way . ''
So he flew down into the field below , and hastened busily from flower to flower , till he had filled a tiny blue-bell with sweet , fresh honey .
Then he stole softly to the hive , and , placing it near the door , concealed himself to watch .
Soon his friend Nimble-Wing came flying home , and when he spied the little cup , he hummed with joy , and called his companions around him .
`` Surely , some good Elf has placed it here for us , '' said they ; `` let us bear it to our Queen ; it is so fresh and fragrant it will be a fit gift for her '' ; and they joyfully took it in , little dreaming who had placed it there .
So each day Thistle filled a flower-cup , and laid it at the door ; and each day the bees wondered more and more , for many strange things happened .
The field-flowers told of the good spirit who watched above them , and the birds sang of the same kind little Elf bringing soft moss for their nests , and food for their hungry young ones ; while all around the hive had grown fairer since the Fairy came .
But the bees never saw him , for he feared he had not yet done enough to win their forgiveness and friendship ; so he lived alone among the vines , daily bringing them honey , and doing some kindly action .
At length , as he lay sleeping in a flower-bell , a little bee came wandering by , and knew him for the wicked Thistle ; so he called his friends , and , as they flew murmuring around him , he awoke .
`` What shall we do to you , naughty Elf ? ''
said they .
`` You are in our power , and we will sting you if you are not still . ''
`` Let us close the flower-leaves around him and leave him here to starve , '' cried one , who had not yet forgotten all the sorrow Thistle had caused them long ago .
`` No , no , that were very cruel , dear Buzz , '' said little Hum ; `` let us take him to our Queen , and she will tell us how to show our anger for the wicked deeds he did .
See how bitterly he weeps ; be kind to him , he will not harm us more . ''
`` You good little Hum ! ''
cried a kind-hearted robin who had hopped near to listen to the bees .
`` Dear friends , do you not know that this is the good Fairy who has dwelt so quietly among us , watching over bird and blossom , giving joy to all he helps ?
It is HE who brings the honey-cup each day to you , and then goes silently away , that you may never know who works so faithfully for you .
Be kind to him , for if he has done wrong , he has repented of it , as you may see . ''
`` Can this be naughty Thistle ? ''
said Nimble-Wing .
`` Yes , it is I , '' said Thistle , `` but no longer cruel and unkind .
I have tried to win your love by patient industry .
Ah , trust me now , and you shall see I am not naughty Thistle any more . ''
Then the wondering bees led him to their Queen , and when he had told his tale , and begged their forgiveness , it was gladly given ; and all strove to show him that he was loved and trusted .
Then he asked if they could tell him where the Air Spirits dwelt , for he must not forget dear Lily-Bell ; and to his great joy the Queen said , `` Yes , '' and bade little Hum guide Thistle to Cloud-Land .
Little Hum joyfully obeyed ; and Thistle followed him , as he flew higher and higher among the soft clouds , till in the distance they saw a radiant light .
`` There is their home , and I must leave you now , dear Thistle , '' said the little bee ; and , bidding him farewell , he flew singing back ; while Thistle , following the light , soon found himself in the Air Spirits ' home .
The sky was gold and purple like an autumn sunset , and long walls of brilliant clouds lay round him .
A rosy light shone through the silver mist , on gleaming columns and the rainbow roof ; soft , fragrant winds went whispering by , and airy little forms were flitting to and fro .
Long Thistle wondered at the beauty round him ; and then he went among the shining Spirits , told his tale , and asked a gift .
But they answered like the Earth Spirits .
`` You must serve us first , and then we will gladly give you a robe of sunlight like our own . ''
And then they told him how they wafted flower-seeds over the earth , to beautify and brighten lonely spots ; how they watched above the blossoms by day , and scattered dews at night , brought sunlight into darkened places , and soft winds to refresh and cheer .
`` These are the things we do , '' said they , `` and you must aid us for a time . ''
And Thistle gladly went with the lovely Spirits ; by day he joined the sunlight and the breeze in their silent work ; by night , with Star-Light and her sister spirits , he flew over the moon-lit earth , dropping cool dew upon the folded flowers , and bringing happy dreams to sleeping mortals .
Many a kind deed was done , many a gentle word was spoken ; and each day lighter grew his heart , and stronger his power of giving joy to others .
At length Star-Light bade him work no more , and gladly gave him the gift he had won .
Then his second task was done , and he flew gayly back to the green earth and slumbering Lily-Bell .
The silvery moonlight shone upon her , as he came to give his second gift ; and the Brownie spoke more kindly than before .
`` One more trial , Thistle , and she will awake .
Go bravely forth and win your last and hardest gift . ''
Then with a light heart Thistle journeyed away to the brooks and rivers , seeking the Water Spirits .
But he looked in vain ; till , wandering through the forest where the Brownies took him captive , he stopped beside the quiet lake .
As he stood here he heard a sound of pain , and , looking in the tall grass at his side , he saw the dragon-fly whose kindness he once repayed by pain and sorrow , and who now lay suffering and alone .
Thistle bent tenderly beside him , saying , `` Dear Flutter , do not fear me .
I will gladly ease your pain , if you will let me ; I am your friend , and long to show you how I grieve for all the wrong I did you , when you were so kind to me .
Forgive , and let me help and comfort you . ''
Then he bound up the broken wing , and spoke so tenderly that Flutter doubted him no longer , and was his friend again .
Day by day did Thistle watch beside him , making little beds of cool , fresh moss for him to rest upon , fanning him when he slept , and singing sweet songs to cheer him when awake .
And often when poor Flutter longed to be dancing once again over the blue waves , the Fairy bore him in his arms to the lake , and on a broad leaf , with a green flag for a sail , they floated on the still water ; while the dragon-fly's companions flew about them , playing merry games .
At length the broken wing was well , and Thistle said he must again seek the Water Spirits .
`` I can tell you where to find them , '' said Flutter ; `` you must follow yonder little brook , and it will lead you to the sea , where the Spirits dwell .
I would gladly do more for you , dear Thistle , but I can not , for they live deep beneath the waves .
You will find some kind friend to aid you on your way ; and so farewell . ''
Thistle followed the little brook , as it flowed through field and valley , growing ever larger , till it reached the sea .
Here the wind blew freshly , and the great waves rolled and broke at Thistle's feet , as he stood upon the shore , watching the billows dancing and sparkling in the sun .
`` How shall I find the Spirits in this great sea , with none to help or guide me ?
Yet it is my last task , and for Lily-Bell's sake I must not fear or falter now , '' said Thistle .
So he flew hither and thither over the sea , looking through the waves .
Soon he saw , far below , the branches of the coral tree .
`` They must be here , '' thought he , and , folding his wings , he plunged into the deep , cold sea .
But he saw only fearful monsters and dark shapes that gathered round him ; and , trembling with fear , he struggled up again .
The great waves tossed him to and fro , and cast him bruised and faint upon the shore .
Here he lay weeping bitterly , till a voice beside him said , `` Poor little Elf , what has befallen you ?
These rough waves are not fit playmates for so delicate a thing as you .
Tell me your sorrow , and I will comfort you . ''
And Thistle , looking up , saw a white sea-bird at his side , who tried with friendly words to cheer him .
So he told all his wanderings , and how he sought the Sea Spirits .
`` Surely , if bee and blossom do their part to help you , birds should aid you too , '' said the Sea-bird .
`` I will call my friend , the Nautilus , and he will bear you safely to the Coral Palace where the Spirits dwell . ''
So , spreading his great wings , he flew away , and soon Thistle saw a little boat come dancing over the waves , and wait beside the shore for him .
In he sprang .
Nautilus raised his little sail to the wind , and the light boat glided swiftly over the blue sea .
At last Thistle cried , `` I see lovely arches far below ; let me go , it is the Spirits ' home . ''
`` Nay , close your eyes , and trust to me .
I will bear you safely down , '' said Nautilus .
So Thistle closed his eyes , and listened to the murmur of the sea , as they sank slowly through the waves .
The soft sound lulled him to sleep , and when he awoke the boat was gone , and he stood among the Water Spirits , in their strange and lovely home .
Lofty arches of snow-white coral bent above him , and the walls of brightly tinted shells were wreathed with lovely sea-flowers , and the sunlight shining on the waves cast silvery shadows on the ground , where sparkling stones glowed in the sand .
A cool , fresh wind swept through the waving garlands of bright sea-moss , and the distant murmur of dashing waves came softly on the air .
Soon troops of graceful Spirits flitted by , and when they found the wondering Elf , they gathered round him , bringing pearl-shells heaped with precious stones , and all the rare , strange gifts that lie beneath the sea .
But Thistle wished for none of these , and when his tale was told , the kindly Spirits pitied him ; and little Pearl sighed , as she told him of the long and weary task he must perform , ere he could win a crown of snow-white pearls like those they wore .
But Thistle had gained strength and courage in his wanderings , and did not falter now , when they led him to a place among the coral-workers , and told him he must labor here , till the spreading branches reached the light and air , through the waves that danced above .
With a patient hope that he might yet be worthy of Lily-Bell , the Fairy left the lovely spirits and their pleasant home , to toil among the coral-builders , where all was strange and dim .
Long , long , he worked ; but still the waves rolled far above them , and his task was not yet done ; and many bitter tears poor Thistle shed , and sadly he pined for air and sunlight , the voice of birds , and breath of flowers .
Often , folded in the magic garments which the Spirits gave him , that he might pass unharmed among the fearful creatures dwelling there , he rose to the surface of the sea , and , gliding through the waves , gazed longingly upon the hills , now looking blue and dim so far away , or watched the flocks of summer birds , journeying to a warmer land ; and they brought sad memories of green old forests , and sunny fields , to the lonely little Fairy floating on the great , wild sea .
Day after day went by , and slowly Thistle's task drew towards an end .
Busily toiled the coral-workers , but more busily toiled he ; insect and Spirit daily wondered more and more , at the industry and patience of the silent little Elf , who had a friendly word for all , though he never joined them in their sport .
Higher and higher grew the coral-boughs , and lighter grew the Fairy's heart , while thoughts of dear Lily-Bell cheered him on , as day by day he steadily toiled ; and when at length the sun shone on his work , and it was done , he stayed but to take the garland he had won , and to thank the good Spirits for their love and care .
Then up through the cold , blue waves he swiftly glided , and , shaking the bright drops from his wings , soared singing up to the sunny sky .
On through the fragrant air went Thistle , looking with glad face upon the fair , fresh earth below , where flowers looked smiling up , and green trees bowed their graceful heads as if to welcome him .
Soon the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleeping rose before him , and as he passed along the cool , dim wood-paths , never had they seemed so fair .
But when he came where his little friend had slept , it was no longer the dark , silent spot where he last saw her .
Garlands hung from every tree , and the fairest flowers filled the air with their sweet breath .
Bird's gay voices echoed far and wide , and the little brook went singing by , beneath the arching ferns that bent above it ; green leaves rustled in the summer wind , and the air was full of music .
But the fairest sight was Lily-Bell , as she lay on the couch of velvet moss that Fairy hands had spread .
The golden flower lay beside her , and the glittering robe was folded round her little form .
The warmest sunlight fell upon her , and the softest breezes lifted her shining hair .
Happy tears fell fast , as Thistle folded his arms around her , crying , `` O Lily-Bell , dear Lily-Bell , awake !
I have been true to you , and now my task is done . ''
Then , with a smile , Lily-Bell awoke , and looked with wondering eyes upon the beauty that had risen round her .
`` Dear Thistle , what mean these fair things , and why are we in this lovely place ? ''
`` Listen , Lily-Bell , '' said the Brownie King , as he appeared beside her .
And then he told all that Thistle had done to show his love for her ; how he had wandered far and wide to seek the Fairy gifts , and toiled long and hard to win them ; how he had been loving , true , and tender , when most lonely and forsaken .
`` Bird , bee , and blossom have forgiven him , and none is more loved and trusted now by all , than the once cruel Thistle , '' said the King , as he bent down to the happy Elf , who bowed low before him .
`` You have learned the beauty of a gentle , kindly heart , dear Thistle ; and you are now worthy to become the friend of her for whom you have done so much .
Place the crown upon her head , for she is Queen of all the Forest Fairies now . ''
And as the crown shone on the head that Lily-Bell bent down on Thistle's breast , the forest seemed alive with little forms , who sprang from flower and leaf , and gathered round her , bringing gifts for their new Queen .
`` If I am Queen , then you are King , dear Thistle , '' said the Fairy .
`` Take the crown , and I will have a wreath of flowers .
You have toiled and suffered for my sake , and you alone should rule over these little Elves whose love you have won . ''
`` Keep your crown , Lily-Bell , for yonder come the Spirits with their gifts to Thistle , '' said the Brownie .
And , as he pointed with his wand , out from among the mossy roots of an old tree came trooping the Earth Spirits , their flower-bells ringing softly as they came , and their jewelled garments glittering in the sun .
On to where Thistledown stood beneath the shadow of the flowers , with Lily-Bell beside him , went the Spirits ; and then forth sprang little Sparkle , waving a golden flower , whose silvery music filled the air .
`` Dear Thistle , '' said the shining Spirit , `` what you toiled so faithfully to win for another , let us offer now as a token of our love for you . ''
As she ceased , down through the air came floating bands of lovely Air Spirits , bringing a shining robe , and they too told their love for the gentle Fairy who had dwelt with them .
Then softly on the breeze came distant music , growing ever nearer , till over the rippling waves came the singing Water Spirits , in their boats of many-colored shells ; and as they placed their glittering crown on Thistle's head , loud rang the flowers , and joyously sang the birds , while all the Forest Fairies cried , with silvery voices , `` Lily-Bell and Thistledown !
Long live our King and Queen ! ''
`` Have you a tale for us too , dear Violet-Eye ? ''
said the Queen , as Zephyr ceased .
The little Elf thus named looked from among the flower-leaves where she sat , and with a smile replied , `` As I was weaving garlands in the field , I heard a primrose tell this tale to her friend Golden-Rod . ''
