The mackerel boats were all at anchor on the fishing grounds ; the sea was glassy calm -- a pallid blue , save for a chance streak of deeper azure where some stray sea breeze ruffled it .
It was about the middle of the afternoon , and intensely warm and breathless .
The headlands and coves were blurred by a purple heat haze .
The long sweep of the sandshore was so glaringly brilliant that the pained eye sought relief among the rough rocks , where shadows were cast by the big red sandstone boulders .
The little cluster of fishing houses nearby were bleached to a silvery grey by long exposure to wind and rain .
Far off were several `` Yankee '' fishing schooners , their sails dimly visible against the white horizon .
Two boats were hauled upon the `` skids '' that ran from the rocks out into the water .
A couple of dories floated below them .
Now and then a white gull , flashing silver where its plumage caught the sun , soared landward .
A young man was standing by the skids , watching the fishing boats through a spyglass .
He was tall , with a straight , muscular figure clad in a rough fishing suit .
His face was deeply browned by the gulf breezes and was attractive rather than handsome , while his eyes , as blue and clear as the gulf waters , were peculiarly honest and frank .
Two wiry , dark-faced French-Canadian boys were perched on one of the boats , watching the fishing fleet with lazy interest in their inky-black eyes , and wondering if the `` Yanks '' had seined many mackerel that day .
Presently three people came down the steep path from the fish-houses .
One of them , a girl , ran lightly forward and touched Benjamin Selby's arm .
He lowered his glass with a start and looked around .
A flash of undisguised delight transfigured his face .
`` Why , Mary Stella !
I didn't expect you 'd be down this hot day .
You haven't been much at the shore lately , '' he added reproachfully .
`` I really haven't had time , Benjamin , '' she answered carelessly , as she took the glass from his hand and tried to focus it on the fishing fleet .
Benjamin steadied it for her ; the flush of pleasure was still glowing on his bronzed cheek , `` Are the mackerel biting now ? ''
`` Not just now .
Who is that stranger with your father , Mary Stella ? ''
`` That is a cousin of ours -- a Mr. Braithwaite .
Are you very busy , Benjamin ? ''
`` Not busy at all -- idle as you see me .
Why ? ''
`` Will you take me out for a little row in the dory ?
I haven't been out for so long . ''
`` Of course .
Come -- here's the dory -- your namesake , you know .
I had her fresh painted last week .
She's as clean as an eggshell . ''
The girl stepped daintily off the rocks into the little cream-coloured skiff , and Benjamin untied the rope and pushed off .
`` Where would you like to go , Mary Stella ? ''
`` Oh , just upshore a little way -- not far .
And don't go out into very deep water , please , it makes me feel frightened and dizzy . ''
Benjamin smiled and promised .
He was rowing along with the easy grace of one used to the oar .
He had been born and brought up in sound of the gulf's waves ; its never-ceasing murmur had been his first lullaby .
He knew it and loved it in every mood , in every varying tint and smile , in every change of wind and tide .
There was no better skipper alongshore than Benjamin Selby .
Mary Stella waved her hand gaily to the two men on the rocks .
Benjamin looked back darkly .
`` Who is that young fellow ? ''
he asked again .
`` Where does he belong ? ''
`` He is the son of Father's sister -- his favourite sister , although he has never seen her since she married an American years ago and went to live in the States .
She made Frank come down here this summer and hunt us up .
He is splendid , I think .
He is a New York lawyer and very clever . ''
Benjamin made no response .
He pulled in his oars and let the dory float amid the ripples .
The bottom of white sand , patterned over with coloured pebbles , was clear and distinct through the dark-green water .
Mary Stella leaned over to watch the distorted reflection of her face by the dory's side .
`` Have you had pretty good luck this week , Benjamin ?
Father couldn't go out much -- he has been so busy with his hay , and Leon is such a poor fisherman . ''
`` We've had some of the best hauls of the summer this week .
Some of the Rustler boats caught six hundred to a line yesterday .
We had four hundred to the line in our boat . ''
Mary Stella began absently to dabble her slender brown hand in the water .
A silence fell between them , with which Benjamin was well content , since it gave him a chance to feast his eyes on the beautiful face before him .
He could not recall the time when he had not loved Mary Stella .
It seemed to him that she had always been a part of his inmost life .
He loved her with the whole strength and fidelity of a naturally intense nature .
He hoped that she loved him , and he had no rival that he feared .
In secret he exalted and deified her as something almost too holy for him to aspire to .
She was his ideal of all that was beautiful and good ; he was jealously careful over all his words and thoughts and actions that not one might make him more unworthy of her .
In all the hardship and toil of his life his love was as his guardian angel , turning his feet from every dim and crooked byway ; he trod in no path where he would not have the girl he loved to follow .
The roughest labour was glorified if it lifted him a step nearer the altar of his worship .
But today he felt faintly disturbed .
In some strange , indefinable way it seemed to him that Mary Stella was different from her usual self .
The impression was vague and evanescent -- gone before he could decide wherein the difference lay .
He told himself that he was foolish , yet the vexing , transient feeling continued to come and go .
Presently Mary Stella said it was time to go back .
Benjamin was in no hurry , but he never disputed her lightest inclination .
He turned the dory about and rowed shoreward .
Back on the rocks , Mosey Louis and Xavier , the French Canadians , were looking through the spyglass by turns and making characteristic comments on the fleet .
Mr. Murray and Braithwaite were standing by the skids , watching the dory .
`` Who is that young fellow ? ''
asked the latter .
`` What a splendid physique he has !
It's a pleasure to watch him rowing . ''
`` That , '' said the older man , with a certain proprietary pride in his tone , `` is Benjamin Selby -- the best mackerel fisherman on the island .
He's been high line all along the gulf shore for years .
I don't know a finer man every way you take him .
Maybe you'll think I 'm partial , '' he continued with a smile .
`` You see , he and Mary Stella think a good deal of each other .
I expect to have Benjamin for a son-in-law some day if all goes well . ''
Braithwaite's expression changed slightly .
He walked over to the dory and helped Mary Stella out of it while Benjamin made the painter fast .
When the latter turned , Mary Stella was walking across the rocks with her cousin .
Benjamin's blue eyes darkened , and he strode moodily over to the boats .
`` You weren't out this morning , Mr. Murray ? ''
`` No , that hay had to be took in .
Reckon I missed it -- pretty good catch , they tell me .
Are they getting any now ? ''
`` No .
It's not likely the fish will begin to bite again for another hour . ''
`` I see someone standing up in that off boat , don't I ? ''
said Mr. Murray , reaching for the spyglass .
`` No , that's only Rob Leslie's crew trying to fool us .
They've tried it before this afternoon .
They think it would be a joke to coax us out there to broil like themselves . ''
`` Frank , '' shouted Mr. Murray , `` come here , I want you . ''
Aside to Benjamin he said , `` He's my nephew -- a fine young chap .
You'll like him , I know . ''
Braithwaite came over , and Mr. Murray put one hand on his shoulder and one on Benjamin's .
`` Boys , I want you to know each other .
Benjamin , this is Frank Braithwaite .
Frank , this is Benjamin Selby , the high line of the gulf shore , as I told you . ''
While Mr. Murray was speaking , the two men looked steadily at each other .
The few seconds seemed very long ; when they had passed , Benjamin knew that the other man was his rival .
Braithwaite was the first to speak .
He put out his hand with easy cordiality .
`` I am glad to meet you , Mr. Selby , '' he said heartily , `` although I am afraid I should feel very green in the presence of such a veteran fisherman as yourself . ''
His frank courtesy compelled some return .
Benjamin took the proffered hand with restraint .
`` I 'm sorry there's no mackerel going this afternoon , '' continued the American .
`` I wanted to have a chance at them .
I never saw mackerel caught before .
I suppose I'll be very awkward at first . ''
`` It's not a very hard thing to do , '' said Benjamin stiffly , speaking for the first time since their meeting .
`` Most anybody could catch mackerel for a while -- it's the sticking to it that counts . ''
He turned abruptly and went back to his boat .
He could not force himself to talk civilly to the stranger , with that newly born demon of distrust gnawing at his heart .
`` I think I'll go out , '' he said .
`` It's freshening up .
I shouldn't wonder if the mackerel schooled soon . ''
`` I'll go , too , then , '' said Mr. Murray .
`` Hi , up there !
Leon and Pete !
Hi , I say ! ''
Two more French Canadians came running down from the Murray fish-house , where they had been enjoying a siesta .
They fished in the Murray boat .
A good deal of friendly rivalry as to catch went on between the two boats , while Leon and Mosey Louis were bitter enemies on their own personal account .
`` Think you'll try it , Frank ? ''
shouted Mr. Murray .
`` Well , not this afternoon , '' was the answer .
`` It's rather hot .
I'll see what it is like tomorrow . ''
The boats were quickly launched and glided out from the shadow of the cliffs .
Benjamin stood at his mast .
Mary Stella came down to the water's edge and waved her hand gaily .
`` Good luck to you and the best catch of the season , '' she called out .
Benjamin waved his hat in response .
His jealousy was forgotten for the moment and he felt that he had been churlish to Braithwaite .
`` You'll wish you 'd come , '' he shouted to him .
`` It's going to be a great evening for fish . ''
When the boats reached the fishing grounds , they came to and anchored , their masts coming out in slender silhouette against the sky .
A row of dark figures was standing up in every boat ; the gulfs shining expanse was darkened by odd black streaks -- the mackerel had begun to school .
Frank Braithwaite went out fishing the next day and caught 30 mackerel .
He was boyishly proud of it .
He visited the shore daily after that and soon became very popular .
He developed into quite an expert fisherman ; nor , when the boats came in , did he shirk work , but manfully rolled up his trousers and helped carry water and `` gib '' mackerel as if he enjoyed it .
He never put on any `` airs , '' and he stoutly took Leon's part against the aggressive Mosey Louis .
Even the French Canadians , those merciless critics , admitted that the `` Yankee '' was a good fellow .
Benjamin Selby alone held stubbornly aloof .
One evening the loaded boats came in at sunset .
Benjamin sprang from his as it bumped against the skids , and ran up the path .
At the corner of his fish-house he stopped and stood quite still , looking at Braithwaite and Mary Stella , who were standing by the rough picket fence of the pasture land .
Braithwaite's back was to Benjamin ; he held the girl's hand in his and was talking earnestly .
Mary Stella was looking up at him , her delicate face thrown back a little .
There was a look in her eyes that Benjamin had never seen there before -- but he knew what it meant .
His face grew pale and rigid ; he clenched his hands and a whirlpool of agony and bitterness surged up in his heart .
All the great blossoms of the hope that had shed beauty and fragrance over his rough life seemed suddenly to shrivel up into black unsightliness .
He turned and went swiftly and noiselessly down the road to his boat .
The murmur of the sea sounded very far off .
Mosey Louis was busy counting out the mackerel , Xavier was dipping up buckets of water and pouring it over the silvery fish .
The sun was setting in a bank of purple cloud , and the long black headland to the west cut the golden seas like a wedge of ebony .
It was all real and yet unreal .
Benjamin went to work mechanically .
Presently Mary Stella came down to her father's boat .
Braithwaite followed slowly , pausing a moment to exchange some banter with saucy Mosey Louis .
Benjamin bent lower over his table ; now and then he caught the dear tones of Mary Stella's voice or her laughter at some sally of Pete or Leon .
He knew when she went up the road with Braithwaite ; he caught the last glimpse of her light dress as she passed out of sight on the cliffs above , but he worked steadily on and gave no sign .
It was late when they finished .
The tired French Canadians went quickly off to their beds in the fish-house loft .
Benjamin stood by the skids until all was quiet , then he walked down the cove to a rocky point that jutted out into the water .
He leaned against a huge boulder and laid his head on his arm , looking up into the dark sky .
The stars shone calmly down on his misery ; the throbbing sea stretched out before him ; its low , murmuring moan seemed to be the inarticulate voice of his pain .
The air was close and oppressive ; fitful flashes of heat lightning shimmered here and there over the heavy banks of cloud on the horizon ; little wavelets sobbed at the base of the rocks .
When Benjamin lifted his head he saw Frank Braithwaite standing between him and the luminous water .
He took a step forward , and they came face to face as Braithwaite turned with a start .
Benjamin clenched his hands and fought down a hideous temptation to thrust his rival off the rock .
`` I saw you today , '' he said in a low , intense tone .
`` What do you think of yourself , coming down here to steal the girl I loved from me ?
Weren't there enough girls where you came from to choose among ?
I hate you .
I 'd kill you -- '' `` Selby , stop !
You don't know what you are saying .
If I have wronged you , I swear I did it unintentionally .
I loved Stella from the first -- who could help it ?
But I thought she was virtually bound to you , and I did not try to win her away .
You don't know what it cost me to remain passive .
I know that you have always distrusted me , but hitherto you have had no reason to .
But today I found that she was free -- that she did not care for you !
And I found -- or thought I found -- that there was a chance for me .
I took it .
I forgot everything else then . ''
`` So she loves you ? ''
said Benjamin dully .
`` Yes , '' said Braithwaite softly .
Benjamin turned on him with sudden passion .
`` I hate you -- and I am the most miserable wretch alive , but if she is happy , it is no matter about me .
You've won easily what I've slaved and toiled all my life for .
You won't value it as I 'd have done -- but if you make her happy , nothing else matters .
I've only one favour to ask of you .
Don't let her come to the shore after this .
I can't stand it . ''
August throbbed and burned itself out .
Affairs along shore continued as usual .
Benjamin shut his sorrow up in himself and gave no outward sign of suffering .
As if to mock him , the season was one of phenomenal prosperity ; it was a `` mackerel year '' to be dated from .
He worked hard and unceasingly , sparing himself in no way .
Braithwaite seldom came to the shore now .
Mary Stella never .
Mr. Murray had tried to speak of the matter , but Benjamin would not let him .
`` It's best that nothing be said , '' he told him with simple dignity .
He was so calm that Mr. Murray thought he did not care greatly , and was glad of it .
The older man regretted the turn of affairs .
Braithwaite would take his daughter far away from him , as his sister had been taken , and he loved Benjamin as his own son .
One afternoon Benjamin stood by his boat and looked anxiously at sea and sky .
The French Canadians were eager to go out , for the other boats were catching .
`` I don't know about it , '' said Benjamin doubtfully .
`` I don't half like the look of things .
I believe we 're in for a squall before long .
It was just such a day three years ago when that terrible squall came up that Joe Otway got drowned in . ''
The sky was dun and smoky , the glassy water was copper-hued , the air was heavy and breathless .
The sea purred upon the shore , lapping it caressingly like some huge feline creature biding its time to seize and crunch its victim .
`` I reckon I'll try it , '' said Benjamin after a final scrutiny .
`` If a squall does come up , we'll have to run for the shore mighty quick , that's all . ''
They launched the boat speedily ; as there was no wind , they had to row .
As they pulled out , Braithwaite and Leon came down the road and began to launch the Murray boat .
`` If dem two gits caught in a squall dey'll hav a tam , '' grinned Mosey Louis .
`` Dat Leon , he don't know de fust ting ` bout a boat , no more dan a cat ! ''
Benjamin came to anchor close in , but Braithwaite and Leon kept on until they were further out than any other boat .
`` Reckon dey's after cod , '' suggested Xavier .
The mackerel bit well , but Benjamin kept a close watch on the sky .
Suddenly he saw a dark streak advancing over the water from the northwest .
He wheeled around .
`` Boys , the squall's coming !
Up with the anchor -- quick ! ''
`` Dere's plenty tam , '' grumbled Mosey Louis , who hated to leave the fish .
`` None of de oder boats is goin ' in yit . ''
The squall struck the boat as he spoke .
She lurched and staggered .
The water was tossing choppily .
There was a sudden commotion all through the fleet and sails went rapidly up .
Mosey Louis turned pale and scrambled about without delay .
Benjamin was halfway to the shore before the sail went up in the Murray boat .
`` Don ' know what dey 're tinkin ' of , '' growled Mosey Louis .
`` Dey'll be drown fust ting ! ''
Benjamin looked back anxiously .
Every boat was making for the shore .
The gale was steadily increasing .
He had his doubts about making a landing himself , and Braithwaite would be twenty minutes later .
`` But it isn't my lookout , '' he muttered .
Benjamin had landed and was hauling up his boat when Mr. Murray came running down the road .
`` Frank ? ''
he gasped .
`` Him and Leon went out , the foolish boys !
They neither of them know anything about a time like this . ''
`` I guess they'll be all right , '' said Benjamin reassuringly .
`` They were late starting .
They may find it rather hard to land . ''
The other boats had all got in with more or less difficulty .
The Murray boat alone was out .
Men came scurrying along the shore in frightened groups of two and three .
The boat came swiftly in before the wind .
Mr. Murray was half beside himself .
`` It'll be all right , sir , '' said one of the men .
`` If they can't land here , they can beach her on the sandshore . ''
`` If they only knew enough to do that , '' wailed the old man .
`` But they don't -- they'll come right on to the rocks . ''
`` Why don't they lower their sail ? ''
said another .
`` They will upset if they don't . ''
`` They 're lowering it now , '' said Benjamin .
The boat was now about 300 yards from the shore .
The sail did not go all the way down -- it seemed to be stuck .
`` Good God , what's wrong ? ''
exclaimed Mr. Murray .
As he spoke , the boat capsized .
A yell of horror rose I from the beach .
Mr. Murray sprang toward Benjamin's boat , but one of the men held him back .
`` You can't do it , sir .
I don't know that anybody can . ''
Braithwaite and Leon were clinging to the boat .
Benjamin Selby , standing in the background , his lips set , his hands clenched , was fighting the hardest battle of his life .
He knew that he alone , out of all the men there , possessed the necessary skill and nerve to reach the boat if she could be reached at all .
There was a bare chance and a great risk .
This man whom he hated was drowning before his eyes .
Let him drown , then !
Why should he risk -- ay , and perchance lose -- his life for his enemy ?
No one could blame him for refusing -- and if Braithwaite were out of the way , Mary Stella might yet be his !
The temptation and victory passed in a few brief seconds .
He stepped forward , cool and self-possessed .
`` I 'm going out .
I want one man with me .
No one with child or wife .
Who'll go ? ''
`` I will , '' shouted Mosey Louis .
`` I haf some spat wid dat Leon , but I not lak to see him drown for all dat ! ''
Benjamin offered no objection .
The French Canadian's arm was strong and he possessed skill and experience .
Mr. Murray caught Benjamin's arm .
`` No , no , Benjamin -- not you -- I can't see both my boys drowned . ''
Benjamin gently loosed the old man's hold .
`` It's for Mary Stella's sake , '' he said hoarsely .
`` If I don't come back , tell her that . ''
They launched the large dory with difficulty and pulled out into the surf .
Benjamin did not lose his nerve .
His quick arm , his steady eye did not fail .
A dozen times the wild-eyed watchers thought the boat was doomed , but as often she righted triumphantly .
At last the drowning men were reached and somehow or other hauled on board Benjamin's craft .
It was easier to come back , for they beached the boat on the sand .
With a wild cheer the men on the shore rushed into the surf and helped to carry the half-unconscious Braithwaite and Leon ashore and up to the Murray fish-house .
Benjamin went home before anyone knew he had gone .
Mosey Louis was left behind to reap the honours ; he sat in a circle of admiring lads and gave all the details of the rescue .
`` Dat Leon , he not tink he know so much now ! ''
he said .
Braithwaite came to the shore next day somewhat pale and shaky .
He went straight to Benjamin and held out his hand .
`` Thank you , '' he said simply .
Benjamin bent lower over his work .
`` You needn't thank me , '' he said gruffly .
`` I wanted to let you drown .
But I went out for Mary Stella's sake .
Tell me one thing -- I couldn't bring myself to ask it of anyone else .
When are you to be -- married ? ''
`` The 12th of September . ''
Benjamin did not wince .
He turned away and looked out across the sea for a few moments .
The last agony of his great renunciation was upon him .
Then he turned and held out his hand .
`` For her sake , '' he said earnestly .
Frank Braithwaite put his slender white hand into the fisherman's hard brown palm .
There were tears in both men's eyes .
They parted in silence .
On the morning of the 12th of September Benjamin Selby went out to the fishing grounds as usual .
The catch was good , although the season was almost over .
In the afternoon the French Canadians went to sleep .
Benjamin intended to row down the shore for salt .
He stood by his dory , ready to start , but he seemed to be waiting for something .
At last it came : a faint train whistle blew , a puff of white smoke floated across a distant gap in the sandhills .
Mary Stella was gone at last -- gone forever from his life .
The honest blue eyes looking out over the sea did not falter ; bravely he faced his desolate future .
The white gulls soared over the water , little swishing ripples lapped on the sand , and through all the gentle , dreamy noises of the shore came the soft , unceasing murmur of the gulf .
