`` Phil , I 'm getting fearfully hungry .
When are we going to strike civilization ? ''
The speaker was my chum , Frank Ward .
We were home from our academy for the Christmas holidays and had been amusing ourselves on this sunshiny December afternoon by a tramp through the `` back lands , '' as the barrens that swept away south behind the village were called .
They were grown over with scrub maple and spruce , and were quite pathless save for meandering sheep tracks that crossed and recrossed , but led apparently nowhere .
Frank and I did not know exactly where we were , but the back lands were not so extensive but that we would come out somewhere if we kept on .
It was getting late and we wished to go home .
`` I have an idea that we ought to strike civilization somewhere up the Enderly Road pretty soon , '' I answered .
`` Do you call that civilization ? ''
said Frank , with a laugh .
No Blackburn Hill boy was ever known to miss an opportunity of flinging a slur at Enderly Road , even if no Enderly Roader were by to feel the sting .
Enderly Road was a miserable little settlement straggling back from Blackburn Hill .
It was a forsaken looking place , and the people , as a rule , were poor and shiftless .
Between Blackburn Hill and Enderly Road very little social intercourse existed and , as the Road people resented what they called the pride of Blackburn Hill , there was a good deal of bad feeling between the two districts .
Presently Frank and I came out on the Enderly Road .
We sat on the fence a few minutes to rest and discuss our route home .
`` If we go by the road it's three miles , '' said Frank .
`` Isn't there a short cut ? ''
`` There ought to be one by the wood-lane that comes out by Jacob Hart's , '' I answered , `` but I don't know where to strike it . ''
`` Here is someone coming now ; we'll inquire , '' said Frank , looking up the curve of the hard-frozen road .
The `` someone '' was a little girl of about ten years old , who was trotting along with a basketful of school books on her arm .
She was a pale , pinched little thing , and her jacket and red hood seemed very old and thin .
`` Hello , missy , '' I said , as she came up , and then I stopped , for I saw she had been crying .
`` What is the matter ? ''
asked Frank , who was much more at ease with children than I was , and had always a warm spot in his heart for their small troubles .
`` Has your teacher kept you in for being naughty ? ''
The mite dashed her little red knuckles across her eyes and answered indignantly , `` No , indeed .
I stayed after school with Minnie Lawler to sweep the floor . ''
`` And did you and Minnie quarrel , and is that why you are crying ? ''
asked Frank solemnly .
`` Minnie and I never quarrel .
I am crying because we can't have the school decorated on Monday for the examination , after all .
The Dickeys have gone back on us ... after promising , too , '' and the tears began to swell up in the blue eyes again .
`` Very bad behaviour on the part of the Dickeys , '' commented Frank .
`` But can't you decorate the school without them ? ''
`` Why , of course not .
They are the only big boys in the school .
They said they would cut the boughs , and bring a ladder tomorrow and help us nail the wreaths up , and now they won't ... and everything is spoiled ... and Miss Davis will be so disappointed . ''
By dint of questioning Frank soon found out the whole story .
The semi-annual public examination was to be held on Monday afternoon , the day before Christmas .
Miss Davis had been drilling her little flock for the occasion ; and a program of recitations , speeches , and dialogues had been prepared .
Our small informant , whose name was Maggie Bates , together with Minnie Lawler and several other little girls , had conceived the idea that it would be a fine thing to decorate the schoolroom with greens .
For this it was necessary to ask the help of the boys .
Boys were scarce at Enderly school , but the Dickeys , three in number , had promised to see that the thing was done .
`` And now they won't , '' sobbed Maggie .
`` Matt Dickey is mad at Miss Davis 'cause she stood him on the floor today for not learning his lesson , and he says he won't do a thing nor let any of the other boys help us .
Matt just makes all the boys do as he says .
I feel dreadful bad , and so does Minnie . ''
`` Well , I wouldn't cry any more about it , '' said Frank consolingly .
`` Crying won't do any good , you know .
Can you tell us where to find the wood-lane that cuts across to Blackburn Hill ? ''
Maggie could , and gave us minute directions .
So , having thanked her , we left her to pursue her disconsolate way and betook ourselves homeward .
`` I would like to spoil Matt Dickey's little game , '' said Frank .
`` He is evidently trying to run things at Enderly Road school and revenge himself on the teacher .
Let us put a spoke in his wheel and do Maggie a good turn as well . ''
`` Agreed .
But how ? ''
Frank had a plan ready to hand and , when we reached home , we took his sisters , Carrie and Mabel , into our confidence ; and the four of us worked to such good purpose all the next day , which was Saturday , that by night everything was in readiness .
At dusk Frank and I set out for the Enderly Road , carrying a basket , a small step-ladder , an unlit lantern , a hammer , and a box of tacks .
It was dark when we reached the Enderly Road schoolhouse .
Fortunately , it was quite out of sight of any inhabited spot , being surrounded by woods .
Hence , mysterious lights in it at strange hours would not be likely to attract attention .
The door was locked , but we easily got in by a window , lighted our lantern , and went to work .
The schoolroom was small , and the old-fashioned furniture bore marks of hard usage ; but everything was very snug , and the carefully swept floor and dusted desks bore testimony to the neatness of our small friend Maggie and her chum Minnie .
Our basket was full of mottoes made from letters cut out of cardboard and covered with lissome sprays of fir .
They were , moreover , adorned with gorgeous pink and red tissue roses , which Carrie and Mabel had contributed .
We had considerable trouble in getting them tacked up properly , but when we had succeeded , and had furthermore surmounted doors , windows , and blackboard with wreaths of green , the little Enderly Road schoolroom was quite transformed .
`` It looks nice , '' said Frank in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Hope Maggie will like it . ''
We swept up the litter we had made , and then scrambled out of the window .
`` I 'd like to see Matt Dickey's face when he comes Monday morning , '' I laughed , as we struck into the back lands .
`` I 'd like to see that midget of a Maggie's , '' said Frank .
`` See here , Phil , let's attend the examination Monday afternoon .
I 'd like to see our decorations in daylight . ''
We decided to do so , and also thought of something else .
Snow fell all day Sunday , so that , on Monday morning , sleighs had to be brought out .
Frank and I drove down to the store and invested a considerable share of our spare cash in a varied assortment of knick-knacks .
After dinner we drove through to the Enderly Road schoolhouse , tied our horse in a quiet spot , and went in .
Our arrival created quite a sensation for , as a rule , Blackburn Hillites did not patronize Enderly Road functions .
Miss Davis , the pale , tired-looking little teacher , was evidently pleased , and we were given seats of honour next to the minister on the platform .
Our decorations really looked very well , and were further enhanced by two large red geraniums in full bloom which , it appeared , Maggie had brought from home to adorn the teacher's desk .
The side benches were lined with Enderly Road parents , and all the pupils were in their best attire .
Our friend Maggie was there , of course , and she smiled and nodded towards the wreaths when she caught our eyes .
The examination was a decided success , and the program which followed was very creditable indeed .
Maggie and Minnie , in particular , covered themselves with glory , both in class and on the platform .
At its close , while the minister was making his speech , Frank slipped out ; when the minister sat down the door opened and Santa Claus himself , with big fur coat , ruddy mask , and long white beard , strode into the room with a huge basket on his arm , amid a chorus of surprised `` Ohs '' from old and young .
Wonderful things came out of that basket .
There was some little present for every child there -- tops , knives , and whistles for the boys , dolls and ribbons for the girls , and a `` prize '' box of candy for everybody , all of which Santa Claus presented with appropriate remarks .
It was an exciting time , and it would have been hard to decide which were the most pleased , parents , pupils , or teacher .
In the confusion Santa Claus discreetly disappeared , and school was dismissed .
Frank , having tucked his toggery away in the sleigh , was waiting for us outside , and we were promptly pounced upon by Maggie and Minnie , whose long braids were already adorned with the pink silk ribbons which had been their gifts . ''
You decorated the school , '' cried Maggie excitedly .
`` I know you did .
I told Minnie it was you the minute I saw it . ''
`` You 're dreaming , child , '' said Frank .
`` Oh , no , I 'm not , '' retorted Maggie shrewdly , `` and wasn't Matt Dickey mad this morning !
Oh , it was such fun .
I think you are two real nice boys and so does Minnie -- don't you Minnie ? ''
Minnie nodded gravely .
Evidently Maggie did the talking in their partnership .
`` This has been a splendid examination , '' said Maggie , drawing a long breath .
`` Real Christmassy , you know .
We never had such a good time before . ''
`` Well , it has paid , don't you think ? ''
asked Frank , as we drove home .
`` Rather , '' I answered .
It did `` pay '' in other ways than the mere pleasure of it .
There was always a better feeling between the Roaders and the Hillites thereafter .
The big brothers of the little girls , to whom our Christmas surprise had been such a treat , thought it worthwhile to bury the hatchet , and quarrels between the two villages became things of the past .
