The morning sun hung , a red , lustreless ball , in the dull grey sky .
A light snow had fallen in the night and the landscape , crossed by spider-like trails of fences , was as white and lifeless as if wrapped in a shroud .
A young man was driving down the road to Rykman 's Corner ; the youthful face visible above the greatcoat was thoughtful and refined , the eyes deep blue and peculiarly beautiful , the mouth firm yet sensitive .
It was not a handsome face , but there was a strangely subtle charm about it .
The chill breathlessness of the air seemed prophetic of more snow .
The Reverend Allan Telford looked across the bare wastes and cold white hills and shivered , as if the icy lifelessness about him were slowly and relentlessly creeping into his own heart and life .
He felt utterly discouraged .
In his soul he was asking bitterly what good had come of all his prayerful labours among the people of this pinched , narrow world , as rugged and unbeautiful in form and life as the barren hills that shut them in .
He had been two years among them and he counted it two years of failure .
He had been too outspoken for them ; they resented sullenly his direct and incisive tirades against their pet sins .
They viewed his small innovations on their traditional ways of worship with disfavour and distrust and shut him out of their lives with an ever-increasing coldness .
He had meant well and worked hard and he felt his failure keenly .
His thoughts reverted to a letter received the preceding day from a former classmate , stating that the pastorate of a certain desirable town church had become vacant and hinting that a call was to be moderated for him unless he signified his unwillingness to accept .
Two years before , Allan Telford , fresh from college and full of vigorous enthusiasm and high ideas , would have said : `` No , that is not for me .
My work must lie among the poor and lowly of earth as did my Master 's .
Shall I shrink from it because , to worldly eyes , the way looks dreary and uninviting ? ''
Now , looking back on his two years ' ministry , he said wearily : `` I can remain here no longer .
If I do , I fear I shall sink down into something almost as pitiful as one of these canting , gossiping people myself .
I can do them no good -- they do not like or trust me .
I will accept this call and go back to my own world . ''
Perhaps the keynote of his failure was sounded in his last words , `` my own world . ''
He had never felt , or tried to feel , that this narrow sphere was his own world .
It was some lower level to which he had come with good tidings and honest intentions but , unconsciously , he had held himself above it , and his people felt and resented this .
They expressed it by saying he was `` stuck-up . ''
Rykman 's Corner came into view as he drove over the brow of a long hill .
He hated the place , knowing it well for what it was -- a festering hotbed of gossip and malice , the habitat of all the slanderous rumours and innuendoes that permeated the social tissue of the community .
The newest scandal , the worst-flavoured joke , the latest details of the most recent quarrel , were always to be had at Rykman 's store .
As the minister drove down the hill , a man came out of a small house at the foot and waited on the road .
Had it been possible Telford would have pretended not to see him , but it was not possible , for Isaac Galletly meant to be seen and hailed the minister cheerfully .
`` Good mornin ' , Mr. Telford .
Ye won't mind giving me a lift down to the Corner , I dessay ? ''
Telford checked his horse reluctantly and Galletly crawled into the cutter .
He was that most despicable of created beings , a male gossip , and he spent most of his time travelling from house to house in the village , smoking his pipe in neighbourly kitchens and fanning into an active blaze all the smouldering feuds of the place .
He had been nicknamed `` The Morning Chronicle '' by a sarcastic schoolteacher who had sojourned a winter at the Corner .
The name was an apt one and clung .
Telford had heard it .
I suppose he is starting out on his rounds now , he thought .
Galletly plunged undauntedly into the conversational gap .
`` Quite a fall of snow last night .
Reckon we'll have more ` fore long .
That was a grand sermon ye gave us last Sunday , Mr. Telford .
Reckon it went home to some folks , judgin ' from all I've heard .
It was needed and that 's a fact .
` Live peaceably with all men ' -- that 's what I lay out to do .
There ain't a house in the district but what I can drop into and welcome .
` Tain't everybody in Rykman 's Corner can say the same . ''
Galletly squinted out of the corner of his eye to see if the minister would open on the trail of this hint .
Telford 's passive face was discouraging but Galletly was not to be baffled .
`` I s ` pose ye haven't heard about the row down at Palmers ' last night ? ''
`` No . ''
The monosyllable was curt .
Telford was vainly seeking to nip Galletly 's gossip in the bud .
The name of Palmer conveyed no especial meaning to his ear .
He knew where the Palmer homestead was , and that the plaintive-faced , fair-haired woman , whose name was Mrs. Fuller and who came to church occasionally , lived there .
His knowledge went no further .
He had called three times and found nobody at home -- at least , to all appearances .
Now he was fated to have the whole budget of some vulgar quarrel forced on him by Galletly .
`` No ?
Everyone 's talkin ' of it .
The long and short of it is that Min Palmer has had a regular up-and-down row with Rose Fuller and turned her and her little gal out of doors .
I believe the two women had an awful time .
Min 's a Tartar when her temper 's up -- and that 's pretty often .
Nobody knows how Rose managed to put up with her so long .
But she has had to go at last .
Goodness knows what the poor critter 'll do .
She hasn't a cent nor a relation -- she was just an orphan girl that Palmer brought up .
She is at Rawlingses now .
Maybe when Min cools off , she'll let her go back but it 's doubtful .
Min hates her like p ` isen . ''
To Telford this was all very unintelligible .
But he understood that Mrs. Fuller was in trouble of some kind and that it was his duty to help her if possible , although he had an odd and unaccountable aversion to the woman , for which he had often reproached himself .
`` Who is this woman you call Min Palmer ? ''
he said coldly .
`` What are the family circumstances ?
I ought to know , perhaps , if I am to be of any service -- but I have no wish to hear idle gossip . ''
His concluding sentence was quite unheeded by Galletly .
`` Min Palmer 's the worst woman in Rykman 's Corner -- or out of it .
She always was an odd one .
I mind her when she was a girl -- a saucy , black-eyed baggage she was !
Handsome , some folks called her .
I never c 'd see it .
Her people were a queer crowd and Min was never brung up right -- jest let run wild all her life .
Well , Rod Palmer took to dancin ' attendance on her .
Rod was a worthless scamp .
Old Palmer was well off and Rod was his only child , but this Rose lived there and kept house for them after Mis ' Palmer died .
She was a quiet , well-behaved little creetur .
Folks said the old man wanted Rod to marry her -- dunno if 't was so or not .
In the end , howsomever , he had to marry Min .
Her brother got after him with a horse-whip , ye understand .
Old Palmer was furious but he had to give in and Rod brought her home .
She was a bit sobered down by her trouble and lived quiet and sullen-like at first .
Her and Rod fought like cat and dog .
Rose married Osh Fuller , a worthless , drunken fellow .
He died in a year or so and left Rose and her baby without a roof over their heads .
Then old Palmer went and brought her home .
He set great store by Rose and he c ` dn't bear Min .
Min had to be civil to Rose as long as old Palmer lived .
Fin ` lly Rod up and died and 't wasn't long before his father went too .
Then the queer part came in .
Everyone expected that he 'd purvide well for Rose and Min 'd come in second best .
But no will was to be found .
I don't say but what it was all right , mind you .
I may have my own secret opinion , of course .
Old Palmer had a regular mania , as ye might say , for makin ' wills .
He 'd have a lawyer out from town every year and have a new will made and the old one burnt .
Lawyer Bell was there and made one ` bout eight months ` fore he died .
It was s ` posed he 'd destroyed it and then died ` fore he 'd time to make another .
He went off awful sudden .
Anyway , everything went to Min 's child -- to Min as ye might say .
She 's been boss .
Rose still stayed on there and Min let her , which was more than folks expected of her .
But she 's turned her out at last .
Min 's in one of her tantrums now and ` tain't safe to cross her path . ''
`` What is Mrs. Fuller to do ? ''
asked Telford anxiously .
`` That 's the question .
She 's sickly -- can't work much -- and then she has her leetle gal .
Min was always jealous of that child .
It 's a real purty , smart leetle creetur and old Palmer made a lot of it .
Min 's own is an awful-looking thing -- a cripple from the time 't was born .
There 's no doubt 't was a jedgement on her .
As for Rose , no doubt the god of the widow and fatherless will purvide for her . ''
In spite of his disgust , Telford could not repress a smile at the tone , half-whine , half-snuffle , with which Galletly ended up .
`` I think I had better call and see this Mrs. Palmer , '' he said slowly . ''
` Twould be no airthly use , Mr. Telford .
Min 'd slam the door in your face if she did nothing worse .
She hates ministers and everything that 's good .
She hasn't darkened a church door for years .
She never had any religious tendency to begin with , and when there was such a scandal about her , old Mr. Dinwoodie , our pastor then -- a godly man , Mr. Telford -- he didn't hold no truck with evildoers -- he went right to her to reprove and rebuke her for her sins .
Min , she flew at him .
She vowed then she 'd never go to church again , and she never has .
People hereabouts has talked to her and tried to do her good , but it ain't no use .
Why , I've heard that woman say there was no God .
It 's a fact , Mr. Telford -- I have .
Some of our ministers has tried to visit her .
They didn't try it more than once .
The last one -- he was about your heft -- he got a scare , I tell you .
Min just caught him by the shoulder and shook him like a rat !
didn't see it myself but Mrs. Rawlings did .
Ye ought to hear her describin ' of it . ''
Galletly chuckled over the recollection , his wicked little eyes glistening with delight .
Telford was thankful when they reached the store .
He felt that he could not endure this man 's society any longer .
Nevertheless , he felt strangely interested .
This Min Palmer must at least be different from the rest of the Cornerites , if only in the greater force of her wickedness .
He almost felt as if her sins on the grand scale were less blameworthy than the petty vices of her censorious neighbours .
Galletly eagerly joined the group of loungers on the dirty wet platform , and Telford passed into the store .
A couple of slatternly women were talking to Mrs. Rykman about `` the Palmer row . ''
Telford made his small purchases hastily .
As he turned from the counter , he came face to face with a woman who had paused in the doorway to survey the scene with an air of sullen scorn .
By some subtle intuition Telford knew that this was Min Palmer .
The young man 's first feeling was one of admiration for the woman before him , who , in spite of her grotesque attire and defiant , unwomanly air , was strikingly beautiful .
She was tall , and not even the man 's ragged overcoat which she wore could conceal the grace of her figure .
Her abundant black hair was twisted into a sagging knot at her neck , and from beneath the old fur cap looked out a pair of large and brilliant black eyes , heavily lashed , and full of a smouldering fire .
Her skin was tanned and coarsened , but the warm crimson blood glowed in her cheeks with a dusky richness , and her face was a perfect oval , with features chiselled in almost classic regularity of outline .
Telford had a curious experience at that moment .
He seemed to see , looking out from behind this external mask of degraded beauty , the semblance of what this woman might have been under more favouring circumstance of birth and environment , wherein her rich , passionate nature , potent for either good or evil , might have been trained and swayed aright until it had developed grandly out into the glorious womanhood the Creator must have planned for her .
He knew , as if by revelation , that this woman had nothing in common with the narrow , self-righteous souls of Rykman 's Corner .
Warped and perverted though her nature might be , she was yet far nobler than those who sat in judgement upon her .
Min made some scanty purchases and left the store quickly , brushing unheedingly past the minister as she did so .
He saw her step on a rough wood-sleigh and drive down the river road .
The platform loungers had been silent during her call , but now the talk bubbled forth anew .
Telford was sick at heart as he drove swiftly away .
He felt for Min Palmer a pity he could not understand or analyze .
The attempt to measure the gulf between what she was and what she might have been hurt him like the stab of a knife .
He made several calls at various houses along the river during the forenoon .
After dinner he suddenly turned his horse towards the Palmer place .
Isaac Galletly , comfortably curled up in a neighbour 's chimney corner , saw him drive past .
`` Ef the minister ain't goin ' to Palmers ' after all ! ''
he chuckled .
`` He 's a set one when he does take a notion .
Well , I warned him what to expect .
If Min claws his eyes out , he'll only have himself to blame . ''
Telford was not without his own misgivings as he drove into the Palmer yard .
He tied his horse to the fence and looked doubtfully about him .
Untrodden snowdrifts were heaped about the front door , so he turned towards the kitchen and walked slowly past the bare lilac trees along the fence .
There was no sign of life about the place .
It was beginning to snow again , softly and thickly , and the hills and river were hidden behind a misty white veil .
He lifted his hand to knock , but before he could do so , the door was flung open and Min herself confronted him on the threshold .
She did not now have on the man 's overcoat which she had worn at the store , and her neat , close-fitting home-spun dress revealed to perfection the full , magnificent curves of her figure .
Her splendid hair was braided about her head in a glossy coronet , and her dark eyes were ablaze with ill-suppressed anger .
Again Telford was overcome by a sense of her wonderful loveliness .
Not all the years of bondage to ill-temper and misguided will had been able to blot out the beauty of that proud , dark face .
She lifted one large but shapely brown hand and pointed to the gate .
`` Go ! ''
she said threateningly .
`` Mrs. Palmer , '' began Telford , but she silenced him with an imperious gesture .
`` I don't want any of your kind here .
I hate all you ministers .
Did you come here to lecture me ?
I suppose some of the Corner saints set you on me .
you'll never cross my threshold . ''
Telford returned her defiant gaze unflinchingly .
His dark-blue eyes , magnetic in their power and sweetness , looked gravely , questioningly , into Min 's stormy orbs .
Slowly the fire and anger faded out of her face and her head drooped .
`` I ain't fit for you to talk to anyway , '' she said with a sort of sullen humility .
`` Maybe you mean well but you can't do me any good .
I 'm past that now .
The Corner saints say I 'm possessed of the devil .
Perhaps I am -- if there is one . ''
`` I do mean well , '' said Telford slowly .
`` I did not come here to reprove you .
I came to help you if I could -- if you needed help , Mrs. Palmer -- '' `` don't call me that , '' she interrupted passionately .
She flung out her hands as if pushing some loathly , invisible thing from her .
`` I hate the name -- as I hated all who ever bore it .
I never had anything but wrong and dog-usage from them all .
Call me Min -- that 's the only name that belongs to me now .
Go -- why don't you go ?
don't stand there looking at me like that .
I 'm not going to change my mind .
I don't want any praying and whining round me .
I've been well sickened of that .
Go ! ''
Telford threw back his head and looked once more into her eyes .
A long look passed between them .
Then he silently lifted his cap and , with no word of farewell , he turned and went down to the gate .
A bitter sense of defeat and disappointment filled his heart as he drove away .
Min stood in the doorway and watched the sleigh out of sight down the river road .
Then she gave a long , shivering sigh that was almost a moan .
`` If I had met that man long ago , '' she said slowly , as if groping vaguely in some hitherto unsounded depth of consciousness , `` I would never have become what I am .
I felt that as I looked at him -- it all came over me with an awful sickening feeling -- just as if we were standing alone somewhere out of the world where there was no need of words to say things .
He doesn't despise me -- he wouldn't sneer at me , bad as I am , like those creatures up there .
He could have helped me if we had met in time , but it 's too late now . ''
She locked her hands over her eyes and groaned , swaying her body to and fro as one in mortal agony .
Presently she looked out again with hard , dry eyes .
`` What a fool I am ! ''
she said bitterly .
`` How the Corner saints would stare if they saw me !
I suppose some of them do -- '' with a glance at the windows of a neighbouring house .
`` Yes , there 's Mrs. Rawlings staring out and Rose peeking over her shoulder . ''
Her face hardened .
The old sway of evil passion reasserted itself .
`` She shall never come back here -- never .
Oh , she was a sweet-spoken cat of a thing -- but she had claws .
I've been blamed for all the trouble .
But if ever I had a chance , I 'd tell that minister how she used to twit and taunt me in that sugary way of hers -- how she schemed and plotted against me as long as she could .
More fool I to care what he thinks either !
I wish I were dead .
If 't wasn't for the child , I 'd go and drown myself at that black spring-hole down there -- I 'd be well out of the way . ''
* * * * * It was a dull grey afternoon a week afterwards when Allan Telford again walked up the river road to the Palmer place .
The wind was bitter and he walked with bent head to avoid its fury .
His face was pale and worn and he looked years older .
He paused at the rough gate and leaned over it while he scanned the house and its surroundings eagerly .
As he looked , the kitchen door opened and Min , clad in the old overcoat , came out and walked swiftly across the yard .
Telford 's eyes followed her with pitiful absorption .
He saw her lead a horse from the stable and harness it into a wood-sleigh loaded with bags of grain .
Once she paused to fling her arms about the animal 's neck , laying her face against it with a caressing motion .
The pale minister groaned aloud .
He longed to snatch her forever from that hard , unwomanly toil and fold her safely away from jeers and scorn in the shelter of his love .
He knew it was madness -- he had told himself so every hour in which Min 's dark , rebellious face had haunted him -- yet none the less was he under its control .
Min led the horse across the yard and left it standing before the kitchen door ; she had not seen the bowed figure at the gate .
When she reappeared , he saw her dark eyes and the rose-red lustre of her face gleam out from under the old crimson shawl wrapped about her head .
As she caught the horse by the bridle , the kitchen door swung heavily to with a sharp , sudden bang .
The horse , a great , powerful , nervous brute , started wildly and then reared in terror .
The ice underfoot was glib and treacherous .
Min lost her foothold and fell directly under the horse 's hoofs as they came heavily down .
The animal , freed from her detaining hand , sprang forward , dragging the laden sleigh over the prostrate woman .
It had all passed in a moment .
The moveless figure lay where it had fallen , one outstretched hand still grasping the whip .
Telford sprang over the gate and rushed up the slope like a madman .
He flung himself on his knees beside her .
`` Min !
Min ! ''
he called wildly .
There was no answer .
He lifted her in his arms and staggered into the house with his burden , his heart stilling with a horrible fear as he laid her gently down on the old lounge in one corner of the kitchen .
The room was a large one and everything was neat and clean .
The fire burned brightly , and a few green plants were in blossom by the south window .
Beside them sat a child of about seven years who turned a startled face at Telford 's reckless entrance .
The boy had Min 's dark eyes and perfectly chiselled features , refined by suffering into cameo-like delicacy , and the silken hair fell in soft , waving masses about the spiritual little face .
By his side nestled a tiny dog , with satin ears and paws fringed as with ravelled silk .
Telford paid heed to nothing , not even the frightened child .
He was as one distraught .
`` Min , '' he wailed again , striving tremblingly to feel her pulse while cold drops came out on his forehead .
Min 's face was as pallid as marble , save for one heavy bruise across the cheek and a cruel cut at the edge of the dark hair , from which the blood trickled down on the pillow .
She opened her eyes wonderingly at his call , looking up with a dazed , appealing expression of pain and dread .
A low moan broke from her white lips .
Telford sprang to his feet in a tumult of quivering joy .
`` Min , dear , '' he said gently , `` you have been hurt -- not seriously , I hope .
I must leave you for a minute while I run for help -- I will not be long . ''
`` Come back , '' said Min in a low but distinct tone .
He paused impatiently .
`` It is of no use to get help , '' Min went on calmly .
`` I 'm dying -- I know it .
Oh , my God ! ''
She pressed her hand to her side and writhed .
Telford turned desperately to the door .
Min raised her arm .
`` Come here , '' she said resolutely .
He obeyed mutely .
She looked up at him with bright , unquailing eyes .
`` don't you go one step -- don't leave me here to die alone .
I 'm past help -- and I've something to say to you .
I must say it and I haven't much time . ''
Telford hardly heeded her in his misery .
`` Min , let me go for help -- let me do something , '' he implored .
`` You must not die -- you must not ! ''
Min had fallen back , gasping , on the blood-stained pillow .
He knelt beside her and put his arm about the poor , crushed body .
`` I must hurry , '' she said faintly .
`` I can't die with it on my mind .
Rose -- it 's all hers -- all .
There was a will -- he made it -- old Gran'ther Palmer .
He always hated me .
I found it before he died -- and read it .
He left everything to her -- not a cent to me nor his son 's child -- we were to starve -- beg .
I was like a madwoman .
When he died -- I hid the will .
I meant -- to burn it -- but I never could .
It 's tortured me -- night and day -- I've had no peace .
you'll find it in a box -- in my room .
Tell her -- tell Rose -- how wicked I've been .
And my boy -- what will become of him ?
Rose hates him -- she'll turn him out -- or ill-treat him -- '' Telford lifted his white , drawn face .
`` I will take your child , Min .
He shall be to me as my own son . ''
An expression of unspeakable relief came into the dying woman 's face .
`` It is good -- of you .
I can die -- in peace -- now .
I 'm glad to die -- to get clear of it all .
I 'm tired -- of living so .
Perhaps -- I'll have a chance -- somewhere else .
I've never -- had any -- here . ''
The dark eyes drooped -- closed .
Telford moaned shudderingly .
Once again Min opened her eyes and looked straight into his .
`` If I had met you -- long ago -- you would have -- loved me -- and I would have been -- a good woman .
It is well for us -- for you -- that I am -- dying .
Your path will be clear -- you will be good and successful -- but you will always -- remember me . ''
Telford bent and pressed his lips to Min 's pain-blanched mouth .
`` Do you think -- we will -- ever meet again ? ''
she said faintly .
`` Out there -- it 's so dark -- God can never -- forgive me -- I've been so -- wicked . ''
`` Min , the all-loving Father is more merciful than man .
He will forgive you , if you ask Him , and you will wait for me till I come .
I will stay here and do my duty -- I will try hard -- '' His voice broke .
Min 's great black eyes beamed out on him with passionate tenderness .
The strong , deep , erring nature yielded at last .
An exceeding bitter cry rose to her lips .
`` Oh , God -- forgive me -- forgive me ! ''
And with the cry , the soul of poor suffering , sinning , sinned-against Min Palmer fled -- who shall say whither ?
Who shall say that her remorseful cry was not heard , even at that late hour , by a Judge more merciful than her fellow creatures ?
Telford still knelt on the bare floor , holding in his arms the dead form of the woman he loved -- his , all his , in death , as she could never have been in life .
Death had bridged the gulf between them .
The room was very silent .
To Min 's face had returned something of its girlhood 's innocence .
The hard , unlovely lines were all smoothed out .
The little cripple crept timidly up to Telford , with the silky head of the dog pressed against his cheek .
Telford gathered the distorted little body to his side and looked earnestly into the small face -- Min 's face , purified and spiritualized .
He would have it near him always .
He bent and reverently kissed the cold face , the closed eyelids and the blood-stained brow of the dead woman .
Then he stood up .
`` Come with me , dear , '' he said gently to the child .
* * * * * The day after the funeral , Allan Telford sat in the study of his little manse among the encircling wintry hills .
Close to the window sat Min 's child , his small , beautiful face pressed against the panes , and the bright-eyed dog beside him .
Telford was writing in his journal .
`` I shall stay here -- close to her grave .
I shall see it every time I look from my study window -- every time I stand in my pulpit -- every time I go in and out among my people .
I begin to see wherein I have failed .
I shall begin again patiently and humbly .
I wrote today to decline the C -- church call .
My heart and my work are here . ''
He closed the book and bowed his head on it .
Outside the snow fell softly ; he knew that it was wrapping that new-made grave on the cold , fir-sentinelled hillside with a stainless shroud of infinite purity and peace .
