At sunset the schoolmaster went up to his room to write a letter to her .
He always wrote to her at the same time -- when the red wave of the sunset , flaming over the sea , surged in at the little curtainless window and flowed over the pages he wrote on .
The light was rose-red and imperial and spiritual , like his love for her , and seemed almost to dye the words of the letters in its own splendid hues -- the letters to her which she never was to see , whose words her eyes never were to read , and whose love and golden fancy and rainbow dreams never were to be so much as known by her .
And it was because she never was to see them that he dared to write them , straight out of his full heart , taking the exquisite pleasure of telling her what he never could permit himself to tell her face to face .
Every evening he wrote thus to her , and the hour so spent glorified the entire day .
The rest of the hours -- all the other hours of the commonplace day -- he was merely a poor schoolmaster with a long struggle before him , one who might not lift his eyes to gaze on a star .
But at this hour he was her equal , meeting her soul to soul , telling out as a man might all his great love for her , and wearing the jewel of it on his brow .
What wonder indeed that the precious hour which made him a king , crowned with a mighty and unselfish passion , was above all things sacred to him ?
And doubly sacred when , as tonight , it followed upon an hour spent with her ?
Its mingled delight and pain were almost more than he could bear .
He went through the kitchen and the hall and up the narrow staircase with a glory in his eyes that thus were held from seeing his sordid surroundings .
Link Houseman , sprawled out on the platform before the kitchen door , saw him pass with that rapt face , and chuckled .
Link was ill enough to look at any time , with his sharp , freckled features and foxy eyes .
When he chuckled his face was that of an unholy imp .
But the schoolmaster took no heed of him .
Neither did he heed the girl whom he met in the hall .
Her handsome , sullen face flushed crimson under the sting of his utter disregard , and her black eyes followed him up the stairs with a look that was not good to see .
`` Sis , '' whispered Link piercingly , `` come out here !
I've got a joke to tell you , something about the master and his girl .
You ain't to let on to him you know , though .
I found it out last night when he was off to the shore .
That old key of Uncle Jim's was just the thing .
He's a softy , and no mistake . ''
* * * * * Upstairs in his little room , the schoolmaster was writing his letter .
The room was as bare and graceless as all the other rooms of the farmhouse where he had boarded during his term of teaching ; but it looked out on the sea , and was hung with such priceless tapestry of his iris dreams and visions that it was to him an apartment in a royal palace .
From it he gazed afar on bays that were like great cups of sapphire brimming over with ruby wine for gods to drain , on headlands that were like amethyst , on wide sweeps of sea that were blue and far and mysterious ; and ever the moan and call of the ocean's heart came up to his heart as of one great , hopeless love and longing crying out to another love and longing , as great and hopeless .
And here , in the rose-radiance of the sunset , with the sea-music in the dim air , he wrote his letter to her .
My Lady : How beautiful it is to think that there is nothing to prevent my loving you !
There is much -- everything -- to prevent me from telling you that I love you .
But nothing has any right to come between my heart and its own ; it is permitted to love you forever and ever and serve and reverence you in secret and silence .
For so much , dear , I thank life , even though the price of the permission must always be the secret and the silence .
I have just come from you , my lady .
Your voice is still in my ears ; your eyes are still looking into mine , gravely yet half smilingly , sweetly yet half provokingly .
Oh , how dear and human and girlish and queenly you are -- half saint and half very womanly woman !
And how I love you with all there is of me to love -- heart and soul and brain , every fibre of body and spirit thrilling to the wonder and marvel and miracle of it !
You do not know it , my sweet , and you must never know it .
You would not even wish to know it , for I am nothing to you but one of many friends , coming into your life briefly and passing out of it , of no more account to you than a sunshiny hour , a bird's song , a bursting bud in your garden .
But the hour and the bird and the flower gave you a little delight in their turn , and when you remembered them once before forgetting , that was their reward and blessing .
That is all I ask , dear lady , and I ask that only in my own heart .
I am content to love you and be forgotten .
It is sweeter to love you and be forgotten than it would be to love any other woman and live in her lifelong remembrance : so humble has love made me , sweet , so great is my sense of my own unworthiness .
Yet love must find expression in some fashion , dear , else it is only pain , and hence these letters to you which you will never read .
I put all my heart into them ; they are the best and highest of me , the buds of a love that can never bloom openly in the sunshine of your life .
I weave a chaplet of them , dear , and crown you with it .
They will never fade , for such love is eternal .
It is a whole summer since I first met you .
I had been waiting for you all my life before and did not know it .
But I knew it when you came and brought with you a sense of completion and fulfilment .
This has been the precious year of my life , the turning-point to which all things past tended and all things future must look back .
Oh , my dear , I thank you for this year !
It has been your royal gift to me , and I shall be rich and great forever because of it .
Nothing can ever take it from me , nothing can mar it .
It were well to have lived a lifetime of loneliness for such a boon -- the price would not be too high .
I would not give my one perfect summer for a generation of other men's happiness .
There are those in the world who would laugh at me , who would pity me , Una .
They would say that the love I have poured out in secret at your feet has been wasted , that I am a poor weak fool to squander all my treasure of affection on a woman who does not care for me and who is as far above me as that great white star that is shining over the sea .
Oh , my dear , they do not know , they can not understand .
The love I have given you has not left me poorer .
It has enriched my life unspeakably ; it has opened my eyes and given me the gift of clear vision for those things that matter ; it has been a lamp held before my stumbling feet whereby I have avoided snares and pitfalls of baser passions and unworthy dreams .
For all this I thank you , dear , and for all this surely the utmost that I can give of love and reverence and service is not too much .
I could not have helped loving you .
But if I could have helped it , knowing with just what measure of pain and joy it would brim my cup , I would have chosen to love you , Una .
There are those who strive to forget a hopeless love .
To me , the greatest misfortune that life could bring would be that I should forget you .
I want to remember you always and love you and long for you .
That would be unspeakably better than any happiness that could come to me through forgetting .
Dear lady , good night .
The sun has set ; there is now but one fiery dimple on the horizon , as if a golden finger had dented it -- now it is gone ; the mists are coming up over the sea .
A kiss on each of your white hands , dear .
Tonight I am too humble to lift my thoughts to your lips .
The schoolmaster folded up his letter and held it against his cheek for a little space while he gazed out on the silver-shining sea with his dark eyes full of dreams .
Then he took from his shabby trunk a little inlaid box and unlocked it with a twisted silver key .
It was full of letters -- his letters to Una .
The first had been written months ago , in the early promise of a northern spring .
They linked together the golden weeks of the summer .
Now , in the purple autumn , the box was full , and the schoolmaster's term was nearly ended .
He took out the letters reverently and looked over them , now and then murmuring below his breath some passages scattered through the written pages .
He had laid bare his heart in those letters , writing out what he never could have told her , even if his love had been known and returned , for dead and gone generations of stern and repressed forefathers laid their unyielding fingers of reserve on his lips , and the shyness of dreamy , book-bred youth stemmed the language of eye and tone .
I will love you forever and ever .
And even though you know it not , surely such love will hover around you all your life .
Like an invisible benediction , not understood but dimly felt , guarding you from ill and keeping far from you all things and thoughts of harm and evil !
* * * * * Sometimes I let myself dream .
And in those dreams you love me , and we go out to meet life together .
I have dreamed that you kissed me -- dreamed it so reverently that the dream did your womanhood no wrong .
I have dreamed that you put your hands in mine and said , `` I love you . ''
Oh , the rapture of it !
* * * * * We may give all we will if we do not ask for a return .
There should be no barter in love .
If , by reason of the greatness of my love for you , I were to ask your love in return , I should be a base creature .
It is only because I am content to love and serve for the sake of loving and serving that I have the right to love you .
* * * * * I have a memory of a blush of yours -- a rose of the years that will bloom forever in my garden of remembrance .
Tonight you blushed when I came upon you suddenly among the flowers .
You were startled -- perhaps I had broken too rudely on some girlish musing ; and straightway your round , pale curve of cheek and your white arch of brow were made rosy as with the dawn of beautiful sunrise .
I shall see you forever as you looked at that time .
In my mad moments I shall dream , knowing all the while that it is only a dream , that you blushed with delight at my coming .
I shall be able to picture forevermore how you would look at one you loved .
* * * * * Tonight the moon was low in the west .
It hung over the sea like a shallop of ruddy gold moored to a star in the harbour of the night .
I lingered long and watched it , for I knew that you , too , were watching it from your window that looks on the sea .
You told me once that you always watched the moon set .
It has been a bond between us ever since .
* * * * * This morning I rose at dawn and walked on the shore to think of you , because it seemed the most fitting time .
It was before sunrise , and the world was virgin .
All the east was a shimmer of silver and the morning star floated in it like a dissolving pearl .
The sea was a great miracle .
I walked up and down by it and said your name over and over again .
The hour was sacred to you .
It was as pure and unspoiled as your own soul .
Una , who will bring into your life the sunrise splendour and colour of love ?
* * * * * Do you know how beautiful you are , Una ?
Let me tell you , dear .
You are tall , yet you have to lift your eyes a little to meet mine .
Such dear eyes , Una !
They are dark blue , and when you smile they are like wet violets in sunshine .
But when you are pensive they are more lovely still -- the spirit and enchantment of the sea at twilight passes into them then .
Your hair has the gloss and brownness of ripe nuts , and your face is always pale .
Your lips have a trick of falling apart in a half-smile when you listen .
They told me before I knew you that you were pretty .
Pretty !
The word is cheap and tawdry .
You are beautiful , with the beauty of a pearl or a star or a white flower .
* * * * * Do you remember our first meeting ?
It was one evening last spring .
You were in your garden .
The snow had not all gone , but your hands were full of pale , early flowers .
You wore a white shawl over your shoulders and head .
Your face was turned upward a little , listening to a robin's call in the leafless trees above you .
I thought God had never made anything so lovely and love-deserving .
I loved you from that moment , Una .
* * * * * This is your birthday .
The world has been glad of you for twenty years .
It is fitting that there have been bird songs and sunshine and blossom today , a great light and fragrance over land and sea .
This morning I went far afield to a long , lonely valley lying to the west , girt round about with dim old pines , where feet of men seldom tread , and there I searched until I found some rare flowers meet to offer you .
I sent them to you with a little book , an old book .
A new book , savouring of the shop and marketplace , however beautiful it might be , would not do for you .
So I sent the book that was my mother's .
She read it and loved it -- the faded rose-leaves she placed in it are there still .
At first , dear , I almost feared to send it .
Would you miss its meaning ?
Would you laugh a little at the shabby volume with its pencil marks and its rose-leaves ?
But I knew you would not ; I knew you would understand .
* * * * * Today I saw you with the child of your sister in your arms .
I felt as the old painters must have felt when they painted their Madonnas .
You bent over his shining golden head , and on your face was the mother passion and tenderness that is God's finishing touch to the beauty of womanhood .
The next moment you were laughing with him -- two children playing together .
But I had looked upon you in that brief space .
Oh , the pain and joy of it !
* * * * * It is so sweet , dear , to serve you a little , though it be only in opening a door for you to pass through , or handing you a book or a sheet of music !
Love wishes to do so much for the beloved !
I can do so little for you , but that little is sweet .
* * * * * This evening I read to you the poem which you had asked me to read .
You sat before me with your brown head leaning on your hands and your eyes cast down .
I stole dear glances at you between the lines .
When I finished I put a red , red rose from your garden between the pages and crushed the book close on it .
That poem will always be dear to me , stained with the life-blood of a rose-like hour .
* * * * * I do not know which is the sweeter , your laughter or your sadness .
When you laugh you make me glad , but when you are sad I want to share in your sadness and soothe it .
I think I am nearer to you in your sorrowful moods .
* * * * * Today I met you by accident at the turn of the lane .
Nothing told me that you were coming -- not even the wind , that should have known .
I was sad , and then all at once I saw you , and wondered how I could have been sad .
You walked past me with a smile , as if you had tossed me a rose .
I stood and watched you out of sight .
That meeting was the purple gift the day gave me .
* * * * * Today I tried to write a poem to you , Una , but I could not find words fine enough , as a lover could find no raiment dainty enough for his bride .
The old words other men have used in singing to their loves seemed too worn and common for you .
I wanted only new words , crystal clear or coloured only by the iris of the light , not words that have been steeped and stained with all the hues of other men's thoughts .
So I burned the verses that were so unworthy of you .
* * * * * Una , some day you will love .
You will watch for him ; you will blush at his coming , be sad at his going .
Oh , I can not think of it !
* * * * * Today I saw you when you did not see me .
I was walking on the shore , and as I came around a rock you were sitting on the other side .
I drew back a little and looked at you .
Your hands were clasped over your knees ; your hat had fallen back , and the sea wind was ruffling your hair .
Your face was lifted to the sky , your lips were parted , your eyes were full of light .
You seemed to be listening to something that made you happy .
I crept gently away , that I might not mar your dream .
Of what were you thinking , Una ?
* * * * * I must leave you soon .
Sometimes I think I can not bear it .
Oh , Una , how selfish it is of me to wish that you might love me !
Yet I do wish it , although I have nothing to offer you but a great love and all my willing work of hand and brain .
If you loved me , I fear I should be weak enough to do you the wrong of wooing you .
I want you so much , dear !
The schoolmaster added the last letter to the others and locked the box .
When he unlocked it again , two days later , the letters were gone .
He gazed at the empty box with dilated eyes .
At first he could not realize what had happened .
The letters could not be gone !
He must have made a mistake , have put them in some other place !
With trembling fingers he ransacked his trunk .
There was no trace of the letters .
With a groan he dropped his face in his hands and tried to think .
His letters were gone -- those precious letters , held almost too sacred for his own eyes to read after they were written -- had been stolen from him !
The inmost secrets of his soul had been betrayed .
Who had done this hideous thing ?
He rose and went downstairs .
In the farmyard he found Link tormenting his dog .
Link was happy only when he was tormenting something .
He never had been afraid of anything in his life before , but now absolute terror took possession of him at sight of the schoolmaster's face .
Physical strength and force had no power to frighten the sullen lad , but all the irresistible might of a fine soul roused to frenzy looked out in the young man's blazing eyes , dilated nostrils , and tense white mouth .
It cowed the boy , because it was something he could not understand .
He only realized that he was in the presence of a force that was not to be trifled with .
`` Link , where are my letters ? ''
said the schoolmaster .
`` I didn't take 'em , Master ! ''
cried Link , crumpling up visibly in his sheer terror .
`` I didn't .
I never teched 'em !
It was Sis .
I told her not to -- I told her you 'd be awful mad , but she wouldn't tend to me .
It was Sis took 'em .
Ask her , if you don't believe me . ''
The schoolmaster believed him .
Nothing was too horrible to believe just then .
`` What has she done with them ? ''
he said hoarsely .
`` She -- she sent 'em to Una Clifford , '' whimpered Link .
`` I told her not to .
She's mad at you , cause you went to see Una and wouldn't go with her .
She thought Una would be mad at you for writing 'em , cause the Cliffords are so proud and think themselves above everybody else .
So she sent 'em .
I -- I told her not to . ''
The schoolmaster said not another word .
He turned his back on the whining boy and went to his room .
He felt sick with shame .
The indecency of the whole thing revolted him .
It was as if his naked heart had been torn from his breast and held up to the jeers of a vulgar world by the merciless hand of a scorned and jealous woman .
He felt stunned as if by a physical blow .
After a time his fierce anger and shame died into a calm desperation .
The deed was done beyond recall .
It only remained for him to go to Una , tell her the truth , and implore her pardon .
Then he must go from her sight and presence forever .
* * * * * It was dusk when he went to her home .
They told him that she was in the garden , and he found her there , standing at the curve of the box walk , among the last late-blooming flowers of the summer .
Have you thought from his letters that she was a wonderful woman of marvellous beauty ?
Not so .
She was a sweet and slender slip of girlhood , with girlhood's own charm and freshness .
There were thousands like her in the world -- thank God for it !
-- but only one like her in one man's eyes .
He stood before her mute with shame , his boyish face white and haggard .
She had blushed crimson all over her dainty paleness at sight of him , and laid her hand quickly on the breast of her white gown .
Her eyes were downcast and her breath came shortly .
He thought her silence the silence of anger and scorn .
He wished that he might fling himself in the dust at her feet .
`` Una -- Miss Clifford -- forgive me ! ''
he stammered miserably .
`` I -- I did not send them .
I never meant that you should see them .
A shameful trick has been played upon me .
Forgive me ! ''
`` For what am I to forgive you ? ''
she asked gravely .
She did not look up , but her lips parted in the little half-smile he loved .
The blush was still on her face .
`` For my presumption , '' he whispered .
`` I -- I could not help loving you , Una .
If you have read the letters you know all the rest . ''
`` I have read the letters , every word , '' she answered , pressing her hand a little more closely to her breast .
`` Perhaps I should not have done so , for I soon discovered that they were not meant for me to read .
I thought at first you had sent them , although the writing of the address on the packet did not look like yours ; but even when I knew you did not I could not help reading them all .
I do not know who sent them , but I am very grateful to the sender . ''
`` Grateful ? ''
he said wonderingly .
`` Yes .
I have something to forgive you , but not -- not your presumption .
It is your blindness , I think -- and -- and your cruel resolution to go away and never tell me of your -- your love for me .
If it had not been for the sending of these letters I might never have known .
How can I forgive you for that ? ''
`` Una ! ''
he said .
He had been very blind , but he was beginning to see .
He took a step nearer and took her hands .
She threw up her head and gazed , blushingly , steadfastly , into his eyes .
From the folds of her gown she drew forth the little packet of letters and kissed it .
`` Your dear letters ! ''
she said bravely .
`` They have given me the right to speak out .
I will speak out !
I love you , dear !
I will be content to wait through long years until you can claim me .
I -- I have been so happy since your letters came ! ''
He put his arms around her and drew her head close to his .
Their lips met .
