Elliot Campbell came down the main staircase of Marwood College and found himself caught up with a whoop into a crowd of Sophs who were struggling around the bulletin board .
He was thumped on the back and shaken hands with amid a hurricane of shouts and congratulations .
`` Good for you , Campbell !
You've won the Fraser .
See your little name tacked up there at the top of the list , bracketed off all by itself for the winner ?
` Elliott H. Campbell , ninety-two per cent . '
A class yell for Campbell , boys ! ''
While the yell was being given with a heartiness that might have endangered the roof , Elliott , with flushed face and sparkling eyes , pushed nearer to the important typewritten announcement on the bulletin board .
Yes , he had won the Fraser Scholarship .
His name headed the list of seven competitors .
Roger Brooks , who was at his side , read over the list aloud : '' ` Elliott H. Campbell , ninety-two . '
I said you 'd do it , my boy .
` Edward Stone , ninety-one ' -- old Ned ran you close , didn't he ?
But of course with that name he 'd no show .
` Kay Milton , eighty-eight . '
Who 'd have thought slow-going old Kay would have pulled up so well ?
` Seddon Brown , eighty-seven ; Oliver Field , eighty-four ; Arthur McIntyre , eighty-two ' -- a very respectable little trio .
And ` Carl McLean , seventy . '
Whew !
what a drop !
Just saved his distance .
It was only his name took him in , of course .
He knew you weren't supposed to be strong in mathematics . ''
Before Elliott could say anything , a professor emerged from the president's private room , bearing the report of a Freshman examination , which he proceeded to post on the Freshman bulletin board , and the rush of the students in that direction left Elliott and Roger free of the crowd .
They seized the opportunity to escape .
Elliott drew a long breath as they crossed the campus in the fresh April sunshine , where the buds were swelling on the fine old chestnuts and elms that surrounded Marwood's red brick walls .
`` That has lifted a great weight off my mind , '' he said frankly .
`` A good deal depended on my winning the Fraser .
I couldn't have come back next year if I hadn't got it .
That four hundred will put me through the rest of my course . ''
`` That's good , '' said Roger Brooks heartily .
He liked Elliott Campbell , and so did all the Sophomores .
Yet none of them was at all intimate with him .
He had no chums , as the other boys had .
He boarded alone , `` dug '' persistently , and took no part in the social life of the college .
Roger Brooks came nearest to being his friend of any , yet even Roger knew very little about him .
Elliott had never before said so much about his personal affairs as in the speech just recorded .
`` I 'm poor -- woefully poor , '' went on Elliott gaily .
His success seemed to have thawed his reserve for the time being .
`` I had just enough money to bring me through the Fresh and Soph years by dint of careful management .
Now I 'm stone broke , and the hope of the Fraser was all that stood between me and the dismal certainty of having to teach next year , dropping out of my class and coming back in two or three years ' time , a complete , rusty stranger again .
Whew !
I made faces over the prospect . ''
`` No wonder , '' commented Roger .
`` The class would have been sorry if you had had to drop out , Campbell .
We want to keep all our stars with us to make a shining coruscation at the finish .
Besides , you know we all like you for yourself .
It would have been an everlasting shame if that little cad of a McLean had won out .
Nobody likes him . ''
`` Oh , I had no fear of him , '' answered Elliott .
`` I don't see what induced him to go in , anyhow .
He must have known he 'd no chance .
But I was afraid of Stone -- he's a born dabster at mathematics , you know , and I only hold my own in them by hard digging . ''
`` Why , Stone couldn't have taken the Fraser over you in any case , if you made over seventy , '' said Roger with a puzzled look .
`` You must have known that .
McLean was the only competitor you had to fear . ''
`` I don't understand you , '' said Elliott blankly .
`` You must know the conditions of the Fraser ! ''
exclaimed Roger .
`` Certainly , '' responded Elliott . ''
` The Fraser scholarship , amounting to four hundred dollars , will be offered annually in the Sophomore class .
The competitors will be expected to take a special examination in mathematics , and the winner will be awarded two hundred dollars for two years , payable in four annual instalments , the payment of any instalment to be conditional on the winner's attending the required classes for undergraduates and making satisfactory progress therein . '
Isn't that correct ? ''
`` So far as it goes , old man .
You forget the most important part of all .
` Preference is to be given to competitors of the name Fraser , Campbell or McLean , provided that such competitor makes at least seventy per cent in his examination . '
You don't mean to tell me that you didn't know that ! ''
`` Are you joking ? ''
demanded Elliott with a pale face .
`` Not a joke .
Why , man , it's in the calendar . ''
`` I didn't know it , '' said Elliott slowly .
`` I read the calendar announcement only once , and I certainly didn't notice that condition . ''
`` Well , that's curious .
But how on earth did you escape hearing it talked about ?
It's always discussed extensively among the boys , especially when there are two competitors of the favoured names , which doesn't often happen . ''
`` I 'm not a very sociable fellow , '' said Elliott with a faint smile .
`` You know they call me ` the hermit . '
As it happened , I never talked the matter over with anyone or heard it referred to .
I -- I wish I had known this before . ''
`` Why , what difference does it make ?
It's all right , anyway .
But it is odd to think that if your name hadn't been Campbell , the Fraser would have gone to McLean over the heads of Stone and all the rest .
Their only hope was that you would both fall below seventy .
It's an absurd condition , but there it is in old Professor Fraser's will .
He was rich and had no family .
So he left a number of bequests to the college on ordinary conditions .
I suppose he thought he might humour his whim in one .
His widow is a dear old soul , and always makes a special pet of the boy who wins the Fraser .
Well , here's my street .
So long , Campbell . ''
Elliott responded almost curtly and walked onward to his boarding-house with a face from which all the light had gone .
When he reached his room he took down the Marwood calendar and whirled over the leaves until he came to the announcement of bursaries and scholarships .
The Fraser announcement , as far as he had read it , ended at the foot of the page .
He turned the leaf and , sure enough , at the top of the next page , in a paragraph by itself , was the condition : `` Preference shall be given to candidates of the name Fraser , Campbell or McLean , provided that said competitor makes at least seventy per cent in his examination . ''
Elliott flung himself into a chair by his table and bowed his head on his hands .
He had no right to the Fraser Scholarship .
His name was not Campbell , although perhaps nobody in the world knew it save himself , and he remembered it only by an effort of memory .
He had been born in a rough mining camp in British Columbia , and when he was a month old his father , John Hanselpakker , had been killed in a mine explosion , leaving his wife and child quite penniless and almost friendless .
One of the miners , an honest , kindly Scotchman named Alexander Campbell , had befriended Mrs. Hanselpakker and her little son in many ways , and two years later she had married him .
They returned to their native province of Nova Scotia and settled in a small country village .
Here Elliott had grown up , bearing the name of the man who was a kind and loving father to him , and whom he loved as a father .
His mother had died when he was ten years old and his stepfather when he was fifteen .
On his deathbed he asked Elliott to retain his name .
`` I've cared for you and loved you since the time you were born , lad , '' he said .
`` You seem like my own son , and I've a fancy to leave you my name .
It's all I can leave you , for I 'm a poor man , but it's an honest name , lad , and I've kept it free from stain .
See that you do likewise , and you'll have your mother's blessing and mine . ''
Elliott fought a hard battle that spring evening .
`` Hold your tongue and keep the Fraser , '' whispered the tempter .
`` Campbell is your name .
You've borne it all your life .
And the condition itself is a ridiculous one -- no fairness about it .
You made the highest marks and you ought to be the winner .
It isn't as if you were wronging Stone or any of the others who worked hard and made good marks .
If you throw away what you've won by your own hard labour , the Fraser goes to McLean , who made only seventy .
Besides , you need the money and he doesn't .
His father is a rich man . ''
`` But I'll be a cheat and a cad if I keep it , '' Elliott muttered miserably .
`` Campbell isn't my legal name , and I 'd never again feel as if I had even the right of love to it if I stained it by a dishonest act .
For it would be stained , even though nobody but myself knew it .
Father said it was a clean name when he left it , and I can not soil it . ''
The tempter was not silenced so easily as that .
Elliott passed a sleepless night of indecision .
But next day he went to Marwood and asked for a private interview with the president .
As a result , an official announcement was posted that afternoon on the bulletin board to the effect that , owing to a misunderstanding , the Fraser Scholarship had been wrongly awarded .
Carl McLean was posted as winner .
The story soon got around the campus , and Elliott found himself rather overwhelmed with sympathy , but he did not feel as if he were very much in need of it after all .
It was good to have done the right thing and be able to look your conscience in the face .
He was young and strong and could work his own way through Marwood in time .
`` No condolences , please , '' he said to Roger Brooks with a smile .
`` I 'm sorry I lost the Fraser , of course , but I've my hands and brains left .
I 'm going straight to my boarding-house to dig with double vim , for I've got to take an examination next week for a provincial school certificate .
Next winter I'll be a flourishing pedagogue in some up-country district . ''
He was not , however .
The next afternoon he received a summons to the president's office .
The president was there , and with him was a plump , motherly-looking woman of about sixty .
`` Mrs. Fraser , this is Elliott Hanselpakker , or Campbell , as I understand he prefers to be called .
Elliott , I told your story to Mrs. Fraser last evening , and she was greatly interested when she heard your rather peculiar name .
She will tell you why herself . ''
`` I had a young half-sister once , '' said Mrs. Fraser eagerly .
`` She married a man named John Hanselpakker and went West , and somehow I lost all trace of her .
There was , I regret to say , a coolness between us over her marriage .
I disapproved of it because she married a very poor man .
When I heard your name , it struck me that you might be her son , or at least know something about her .
Her name was Mary Helen Rodney , and I loved her very dearly in spite of our foolish quarrel . ''
There was a tremour in Mrs. Fraser's voice and an answering one in Elliott's as he replied : `` Mary Helen Rodney was my dear mother's name , and my father was John Hanselpakker . ''
`` Then you are my nephew , '' exclaimed Mrs. Fraser .
`` I am your Aunt Alice .
My boy , you don't know how much it means to a lonely old woman to have found you .
I 'm the happiest person in the world ! ''
She slipped her arm through Elliott's and turned to the sympathetic president with shining eyes .
`` He is my boy forever , if he will be .
Blessings on the Fraser Scholarship ! ''
`` Blessings rather on the manly boy who wouldn't keep it under false colours , '' said the president with a smile .
`` I think you are fortunate in your nephew , Mrs. Fraser . ''
So Elliott Hanselpakker Campbell came back to Marwood the next year after all .
