`` How beautiful ! ''
said Mary Seymour delightedly , as they dismounted from their wheels on the crest of the hill .
`` Ida , who could have supposed that such a view would be our reward for climbing that long , tedious hill with its ruts and stones ?
Don't you feel repaid ? ''
`` Yes , but I am dreadfully thirsty , '' said Ida , who was always practical and never as enthusiastic over anything as Mary was .
Yet she , too , felt a keen pleasure in the beauty of the scene before them .
Almost at their feet lay the sea , creaming and shimmering in the mellow sunshine .
Beyond , on either hand , stretched rugged brown cliffs and rocks , here running out to sea in misty purple headlands , there curving into bays and coves that seemed filled up with sunlight and glamour and pearly hazes ; a beautiful shore and , seemingly , a lonely one .
The only house visible from where the girls stood was a tiny grey one , with odd , low eaves and big chimneys , that stood down in the little valley on their right , where the cliffs broke away to let a brook run out to sea and formed a small cove , on whose sandy shore the waves lapped and crooned within a stone's throw of the house .
On either side of the cove a headland made out to sea , curving around to enclose the sparkling water as in a cup .
`` What a picturesque spot ! ''
said Mary .
`` But what a lonely one ! ''
protested Ida .
`` Why , there isn't another house in sight .
I wonder who lives in it .
Anyway , I 'm going down to ask them for a drink of water . ''
`` I 'd like to ask for a square meal , too , '' said Mary , laughing .
`` I am discovering that I am hungry .
Fine scenery is very satisfying to the soul , to be sure , but it doesn't still the cravings of the inner girl .
And we've wheeled ten miles this afternoon .
I 'm getting hungrier every minute . ''
They reached the little grey house by way of a sloping , grassy lane .
Everything about it was very neat and trim .
In front a white-washed paling shut in the garden which , sheltered as it was by the house , was ablaze with poppies and hollyhocks and geraniums .
A path , bordered by big white clam shells , led through it to the front door , whose steps were slabs of smooth red sandstone from the beach .
`` No children here , certainly , '' whispered Ida .
`` Every one of those clam shells is placed just so .
And this walk is swept every day .
No , we shall never dare to ask for anything to eat here .
They would be afraid of our scattering crumbs . ''
Ida lifted her hand to knock , but before she could do so , the door was thrown open and a breathless little lady appeared on the threshold .
She was very small , with an eager , delicately featured face and dark eyes twinkling behind gold-rimmed glasses .
She was dressed immaculately in an old-fashioned gown of grey silk with a white muslin fichu crossed over her shoulders , and her silvery hair fell on each side of her face in long , smooth curls that just touched her shoulders and bobbed and fluttered with her every motion ; behind , it was caught up in a knot on her head and surmounted by a tiny lace cap .
She looks as if she had just stepped out of a bandbox of last century , thought Mary .
`` Are you Cousin Abner's girls ? ''
demanded the little lady eagerly .
There was such excitement and expectation in her face and voice that both the Seymour girls felt uncomfortably that they ought to be `` Cousin Abner's girls . ''
`` No , '' said Mary reluctantly , `` we 're not .
We are only -- Martin Seymour's girls . ''
All the light went out of the little lady's face , as if some illuminating lamp had suddenly been quenched behind it .
She seemed fairly to droop under her disappointment .
As for the rest , the name of Martin Seymour evidently conveyed no especial meaning to her ears .
How could she know that he was a multi-millionaire who was popularly supposed to breakfast on railroads and lunch on small corporations , and that his daughters were girls whom all people delighted to honour ?
`` No , of course you are not Cousin Abner's girls , '' she said sorrowfully .
`` I 'd have known you couldn't be if I had just stopped to think .
Because you are dark and they would be fair , of course ; Cousin Abner and his wife were both fair .
But when I saw you coming down the lane -- I was peeking through the hall window upstairs , you know , I and Juliana -- I was sure you were Helen and Beatrice at last .
And I can't help wishing you were ! ''
`` I wish we were , too , since you expected them , '' said Mary , smiling .
`` But -- '' `` Oh , I wasn't really expecting them , '' broke in the little lady .
`` Only I am always hoping that they will come .
They never have yet , but Trenton isn't so very far away , and it is so lonely here .
I just long for company -- I and Juliana -- and I thought I was going to have it today .
Cousin Abner came to see me once since I moved here and he said the girls would come , too , but that was six months ago and they haven't come yet .
But perhaps they will soon .
It is always something to look forward to , you know . ''
She talked in a sweet , chirpy voice like a bird's .
There were pathetic notes in it , too , as the girls instinctively felt .
How very quaint and sweet and unworldly she was !
Mary found herself feeling indignant at Cousin Abner's girls , whoever they were , for their neglect .
`` We are out for a spin on our wheels , '' said Ida , `` and we are very thirsty .
We thought perhaps you would be kind enough to give us a drink of water . ''
`` Oh , my dear , anything -- anything I have is at your service , '' said the little lady delightedly .
`` If you will come in , I will get you some lemonade . ''
`` I am afraid it is too much trouble , '' began Mary .
`` Oh , no , no , '' cried the little lady .
`` It is a pleasure .
I love doing things for people , I wish more of them would come to give me the chance .
I never have any company , and I do so long for it .
It's very lonesome here at Golden Gate .
Oh , if you would only stay to tea with me , it would make me so happy .
I am all prepared .
I prepare every Saturday morning , in particular , so that if Cousin Abner's girls did come , I would be all ready .
And when nobody comes , Juliana and I have to eat everything up ourselves .
And that is bad for us -- it gives Juliana indigestion .
If you would only stay ! ''
`` We will , '' agreed Ida promptly .
`` And we 're glad of the chance .
We are both terribly hungry , and it is very good of you to ask us . ''
`` Oh , indeed , it isn't !
It's just selfishness in me , that's what it is , pure selfishness !
I want company so much .
Come in , my dears , and I suppose I must introduce myself because you don't know me , do you now ?
I 'm Miss Sally Temple , and this is Golden Gate Cottage .
Dear me , this is something like living .
You are special providences , that you are , indeed ! ''
She whisked them through a quaint little parlour , where everything was as dainty and neat and old-fashioned as herself , and into a spare bedroom beyond it , to put off their hats .
`` Now , just excuse me a minute while I run out and tell Juliana that we are going to have company to tea .
She will be so glad , Juliana will .
Make yourselves at home , my dears . ''
`` Isn't she delicious ? ''
said Mary , when Miss Sally had tripped out .
`` I 'd like to shake Cousin Abner's girls .
This is what Dot Halliday would call an adventure , Ida . ''
`` Isn't it !
Miss Sally and this quaint old spot both seem like a chapter out of the novels our grandmothers cried over .
Look here , Mary , she is lonely and our visit seems like a treat to her .
Let us try to make it one .
Let's just chum with her and tell her all about ourselves and our amusements and our dresses .
That sounds frivolous , but you know what I mean .
She'll like it .
Let's be company in real earnest for her . ''
When Miss Sally came back , she was attended by Juliana carrying a tray of lemonade glasses .
Juliana proved to be a diminutive lass of about fourteen whose cheerful , freckled face wore an expansive grin of pleasure .
Evidently Juliana was as fond of `` company '' as her mistress was .
Afterwards , the girls overheard a subdued colloquy between Miss Sally and Juliana out in the hall .
`` Go set the table , Juliana , and put on Grandmother Temple's wedding china -- be sure you dust it carefully -- and the best tablecloth -- and be sure you get the crease straight -- and put some sweet peas in the centre -- and be sure they are fresh .
I want everything extra nice , Juliana . ''
`` Yes 'm , Miss Sally , I'll see to it .
Isn't it great to have company , Miss Sally ? ''
whispered Juliana .
The Seymour girls long remembered that tea table and the delicacies with which it was heaped .
Privately , they did not wonder that Juliana had indigestion when she had to eat many such unaided .
Being hungry , they did full justice to Miss Sally's good things , much to that little lady's delight .
She told them all about herself .
She had lived at Golden Gate Cottage only a year .
`` Before that , I lived away down the country at Millbridge with a cousin .
My Uncle Ephraim owned Golden Gate Cottage , and when he died he left it to me and I came here to live .
It is a pretty place , isn't it ?
You see those two headlands out there ?
In the morning , when the sun rises , the water between them is just a sea of gold , and that is why Uncle Ephraim had a fancy to call his place Golden Gate .
I love it here .
It is so nice to have a home of my own .
I would be quite content if I had more company .
But I have you today , and perhaps Beatrice and Helen will come next week .
So I've really a great deal to be thankful for . ''
`` What is your Cousin Abner's other name ? ''
asked Mary , with a vague recollection of hearing of Beatrice and Helen -- somebody -- in Trenton .
`` Reed -- Abner Abimelech Reed , '' answered Miss Sally promptly .
`` A.A. Reed , he signs himself now .
He is very well-to-do , I am told , and he carries on business in town .
He was a very fine young man , my Cousin Abner .
I don't know his wife . ''
Mary and Ida exchanged glances .
Beatrice and Helen Reed !
They knew them slightly as the daughters of a new-rich family who were hangers-on of the fashionable society in Trenton .
They were regarded as decidedly vulgar , and so far their efforts to gain an entry into the exclusive circle where the Seymours and their like revolved had not been very successful .
`` I 'm afraid Miss Sally will wait a long while before she sees Cousin Abner's girls , '' said Mary , when they had gone back to the parlour and Miss Sally had excused herself to superintend the washing of Grandmother Temple's wedding china .
`` They probably look on her as a poor relation to be ignored altogether ; whereas , if they were only like her , Trenton society would have made a place for them long ago . ''
The Seymour girls enjoyed that visit as much as Miss Sally did .
She was eager to hear all about their girlish lives and amusements .
They told her of their travels , of famous men and women they had seen , of parties they had attended , the dresses they wore , the little fads and hobbies of their set -- all jumbled up together and all listened to eagerly by Miss Sally and also by Juliana , who was permitted to sit on the stairs out in the hall and so gather in the crumbs of this intellectual feast .
`` Oh , you've been such pleasant company , '' said Miss Sally when the girls went away .
Mary took the little lady's hands in hers and looked affectionately down into her face .
`` Would you like it -- you and Juliana -- if we came out to see you often ?
And perhaps brought some of our friends with us ? ''
`` Oh , if you only would ! ''
breathed Miss Sally .
Mary laughed and , obeying a sudden impulse , bent and kissed Miss Sally's cheek .
`` We'll come then , '' she promised .
`` Please look upon us as your ` steady company ' henceforth . ''
The girls kept their word .
Thereafter , nearly every Saturday of the summer found them taking tea with Miss Sally at Golden Gate .
Sometimes they came alone ; sometimes they brought other girls .
It soon became a decided `` fad '' in their set to go to see Miss Sally .
Everybody who met her loved her at sight .
It was considered a special treat to be taken by the Seymours to Golden Gate .
As for Miss Sally , her cup of happiness was almost full .
She had `` company '' to her heart's content and of the very kind she loved -- bright , merry , fun-loving girls who devoured her dainties with a frank zest that delighted her , filled the quaint old rooms with laughter and life , and chattered to her of all their plans and frolics and hopes .
There was just one little cloud on Miss Sally's fair sky .
`` If only Cousin Abner's girls would come ! ''
she once said wistfully to Mary .
`` Nobody can quite take the place of one's own , you know .
My heart yearns after them . ''
Mary was very silent and thoughtful as she drove back to Trenton that night .
Two days afterwards , she went to Mrs. Gardiner's lawn party .
The Reed girls were there .
They were tall , fair , handsome girls , somewhat too lavishly and pronouncedly dressed in expensive gowns and hats , and looking , as they felt , very much on the outside of things .
They brightened and bridled , however , when Mrs. Gardiner brought Mary Seymour up and introduced her .
If there was one thing on earth that the Reed girls longed for more than another it was to `` get in '' with the Seymour girls .
After Mary had chatted with them for a few minutes in a friendly way , she said , `` I think we have a mutual friend in Miss Sally Temple of Golden Gate , haven't we ?
I 'm sure I've heard her speak of you . ''
The Reed girls flushed .
They did not care to have the rich Seymour girls know of their connection with that queer old cousin of their father's who lived in that out-of-the-world spot up-country .
`` She is a distant cousin of ours , '' said Beatrice carelessly , `` but we've never met her . ''
`` Oh , how much you have missed ! ''
said Mary frankly .
`` She is the sweetest and most charming little lady I have ever met , and I am proud to number her among my friends .
Golden Gate is such an idyllic little spot , too .
We go there so often that I fear Miss Sally will think we mean to outwear our welcome .
We hope to have her visit us in town this winter .
Well , good-by for now .
I'll tell Miss Sally I've met you .
She will be pleased to hear about you . ''
When Mary had gone , the Reed girls looked at each other .
`` I suppose we ought to have gone to see Cousin Sally before , '' said Beatrice .
`` Father said we ought to . ''
`` How on earth did the Seymours pick her up ? ''
said Helen .
`` Of course we must go and see her . ''
Go they did .
The very next day Miss Sally's cup of happiness brimmed right over , for Cousin Abner's girls came to Golden Gate at last .
They were very nice to her , too .
Indeed , in spite of a good deal of snobbishness and false views of life , they were good-hearted girls under it all ; and some plain common sense they had inherited from their father came to the surface and taught them to see that Miss Sally was a relative of whom anyone might be proud .
They succumbed to her charm , as the others had done , and thoroughly enjoyed their visit to Golden Gate .
They went away promising to come often again ; and I may say right here that they kept their promise , and a real friendship grew up between Miss Sally and `` Cousin Abner's girls '' that was destined to work wonders for the latter , not only socially and mentally but spiritually as well , for it taught them that sincerity and honest kindliness of heart and manner are the best passports everywhere , and that pretence of any kind is a vulgarity not to be tolerated .
This took time , of course .
The Reed girls could not discard their snobbishness all at once .
But in the end it was pretty well taken out of them .
Miss Sally never dreamed of this or the need for it .
She loved Cousin Abner's girls from the first and always admired them exceedingly .
`` And then it is so good to have your own folks coming as company , '' she told the Seymour girls .
`` Oh , I 'm just in the seventh heaven of happiness .
But , dearies , I think you will always be my favourites -- mine and Juliana's .
I've plenty of company now and it's all thanks to you . ''
`` Oh , no , '' said Mary quickly .
`` Miss Sally , your company comes to you for just your own sake .
You've made Golden Gate a veritable Mecca for us all .
You don't know and you never will know how much good you have done us .
You are so good and true and sweet that we girls all feel as if we were bound to live up to you , don't you see ?
And we all love you , Miss Sally . ''
`` I 'm so glad , '' breathed Miss Sally with shining eyes , `` and so is Juliana . ''
