Miss Calista was perplexed .
Her nephew , Caleb Cramp , who had been her right-hand man for years and whom she had got well broken into her ways , had gone to the Klondike , leaving her to fill his place with the next best man ; but the next best man was slow to appear , and meanwhile Miss Calista was looking about her warily .
She could afford to wait a while , for the crop was all in and the fall ploughing done , so that the need of a successor to Caleb was not as pressing as it might otherwise have been .
There was no lack of applicants , such as they were .
Miss Calista was known to be a kind and generous mistress , although she had her `` ways , '' and insisted calmly and immovably upon wholehearted compliance with them .
She had a small , well-cultivated farm and a comfortable house , and her hired men lived in clover .
Caleb Cramp had been perfection after his kind , and Miss Calista did not expect to find his equal .
Nevertheless , she set up a certain standard of requirements ; and although three weeks , during which Miss Calista had been obliged to put up with the immature services of a neighbour's boy , had elapsed since Caleb's departure , no one had as yet stepped into his vacant and coveted shoes .
Certainly Miss Calista was somewhat hard to please , but she was not thinking of herself as she sat by her front window in the chilly November twilight .
Instead , she was musing on the degeneration of hired men , and reflecting that it was high time the wheat was thrashed , the house banked , and sundry other duties attended to .
Ches Maybin had been up that afternoon to negotiate for the vacant place , and had offered to give satisfaction for smaller wages than Miss Calista had ever paid .
But he had met with a brusque refusal , scarcely as civil as Miss Calista had bestowed on drunken Jake Stinson from the Morrisvale Road .
Not that Miss Calista had any particular prejudice against Ches Maybin , or knew anything positively to his discredit .
She was simply unconsciously following the example of a world that exerts itself to keep a man down when he is down and prevent all chance of his rising .
Nothing succeeds like success , and the converse of this is likewise true -- that nothing fails like failure .
There was not a person in Cooperstown who would not have heartily endorsed Miss Calista's refusal .
Ches Maybin was only eighteen , although he looked several years older , and although no flagrant misdoing had ever been proved against him , suspicion of such was not wanting .
He came of a bad stock , people said sagely , adding that what was bred in the bone was bound to come out in the flesh .
His father , old Sam Maybin , had been a shiftless and tricky rascal , as everybody knew , and had ended his days in the poorhouse .
Ches's mother had died when he was a baby , and he had come up somehow , in a hand-to-mouth fashion , with all the cloud of heredity hanging over him .
He was always looked at askance , and when any mischief came to light in the village , it was generally fastened on him as a convenient and handy scapegoat .
He was considered sulky and lazy , and the local prophets united in predicting a bad end for him sooner or later ; and , moreover , diligently endeavoured by their general treatment of him to put him in a fair way to fulfil their predictions .
Miss Calista , when she had shut Chester Maybin out into the chill gloom of the November dusk , dismissed him from her thoughts .
There were other things of more moment to her just then than old Sam Maybin's hopeful son .
There was nobody in the house but herself , and although this was neither alarming nor unusual , it was unusual -- and Miss Calista considered it alarming -- that the sum of five hundred dollars should at that very moment be in the upper right-hand drawer of the sideboard , which sum had been up to the previous day safe in the coffers of the Millageville bank .
But certain unfavourable rumours were in course of circulation about that same institution , and Miss Calista , who was nothing if not prudent , had gone to the bank that very morning and withdrawn her deposit .
She intended to go over to Kerrytown the very next day and deposit it in the Savings Bank there .
Not another day would she keep it in the house , and , indeed , it worried her to think she must keep it even for the night , as she had told Mrs. Galloway that afternoon during a neighbourly back-yard chat .
`` Not but what it's safe enough , '' she said , `` for not a soul but you knows I've got it .
But I 'm not used to have so much by me , and there are always tramps going round .
It worries me somehow .
I wouldn't give it a thought if Caleb was here .
I s ` pose being all alone makes me nervous . ''
Miss Calista was still rather nervous when she went to bed that night , but she was a woman of sound sense and was determined not to give way to foolish fears .
She locked doors and windows carefully , as was her habit , and saw that the fastenings were good and secure .
The one on the dining-room window , looking out on the back yard , wasn't ; in fact , it was broken altogether ; but , as Miss Calista told herself , it had been broken just so for the last six years , and nobody had ever tried to get in at it yet , and it wasn't likely anyone would begin tonight .
Miss Calista went to bed and , despite her worry , slept soon and soundly .
It was well on past midnight when she suddenly wakened and sat bolt upright in bed .
She was not accustomed to waken in the night , and she had the impression of having been awakened by some noise .
She listened breathlessly .
Her room was directly over the dining-room , and an empty stovepipe hole opened up through the ceiling of the latter at the head of her bed .
There was no mistake about it .
Something or some person was moving about stealthily in the room below .
It wasn't the cat -- Miss Calista had shut him in the woodshed before she went to bed , and he couldn't possibly get out .
It must certainly be a beggar or tramp of some description .
Miss Calista might be given over to nervousness in regard to imaginary thieves , but in the presence of real danger she was cool and self-reliant .
As noiselessly and swiftly as any burglar himself , Miss Calista slipped out of bed and into her clothes .
Then she tip-toed out into the hall .
The late moonlight , streaming in through the hall windows , was quite enough illumination for her purpose , and she got downstairs and was fairly in the open doorway of the dining-room before a sound betrayed her presence .
Standing at the sideboard , hastily ransacking the neat contents of an open drawer , stood a man's figure , dimly visible in the moonlight gloom .
As Miss Calista's grim form appeared in the doorway , the midnight marauder turned with a start and then , with an inarticulate cry , sprang , not at the courageous lady , but at the open window behind him .
Miss Calista , realizing with a flash of comprehension that he was escaping her , had a woman-like impulse to get a blow in anyhow ; she grasped and hurled at her unceremonious caller the first thing that came to hand -- a bottle of peppermint essence that was standing on the sideboard .
The missile hit the escaping thief squarely on the shoulder as he sprang out of the window , and the fragments of glass came clattering down on the sill .
The next moment Miss Calista found herself alone , standing by the sideboard in a half-dazed fashion , for the whole thing had passed with such lightning-like rapidity that it almost seemed as if it were the dissolving end of a bad dream .
But the open drawer and the window , where the bits of glass were glistening in the moonlight , were no dream .
Miss Calista recovered herself speedily , closed the window , lit the lamp , gathered up the broken glass , and set up the chairs which the would-be thief had upset in his exit .
An examination of the sideboard showed the precious five hundred safe and sound in an undisturbed drawer .
Miss Calista kept grim watch and ward there until morning , and thought the matter over exhaustively .
In the end she resolved to keep her own counsel .
She had no clue whatever to the thief's whereabouts or identity , and no good would come of making a fuss , which might only end in throwing suspicion on someone who might be quite innocent .
When the morning came Miss Calista lost no time in setting out for Kerrytown , where the money was soon safely deposited in the bank .
She heaved a sigh of relief when she left the building .
I feel as if I could enjoy life once more , she said to herself .
Goodness me , if I 'd had to keep that money by me for a week itself , I 'd have been a raving lunatic by the end of it .
Miss Calista had shopping to do and friends to visit in town , so that the dull autumn day was well nigh spent when she finally got back to Cooperstown and paused at the corner store to get a bundle of matches .
The store was full of men , smoking and chatting around the fire , and Miss Calista , whose pet abomination was tobacco smoke , was not at all minded to wait any longer than she could help .
But Abiram Fell was attending to a previous customer , and Miss Calista sat grimly down by the counter to wait her turn .
The door opened , letting in a swirl of raw November evening wind and Ches Maybin .
He nodded sullenly to Mr. Fell and passed down the store to mutter a message to a man at the further end .
Miss Calista lifted her head as he passed and sniffed the air as a charger who scents battle .
The smell of tobacco was strong , and so was that of the open boxes of dried herring on the counter , but plainly , above all the commingled odours of a country grocery , Miss Calista caught a whiff of peppermint , so strong as to leave no doubt of its origin .
There had been no hint of it before Ches Maybin's entrance .
The latter did not wait long .
He was out and striding along the shadowy road when Miss Calista left the store and drove smartly after him .
It never took Miss Calista long to make up her mind about anything , and she had weighed and passed judgement on Ches Maybin's case while Mr. Fell was doing up her matches .
The lad glanced up furtively as she checked her fat grey pony beside him .
`` Good evening , Chester , '' she said with brisk kindness .
`` I can give you a lift , if you are going my way .
Jump in , quick -- Dapple is a little restless . ''
A wave of crimson , duskily perceptible under his sunburned skin , surged over Ches Maybin's face .
It almost seemed as if he were going to blurt out a blunt refusal .
But Miss Calista's face was so guileless and her tone so friendly , that he thought better of it and sprang in beside her , and Dapple broke into an impatient trot down the long hill lined with its bare , wind-writhen maples .
After a few minutes ' silence Miss Calista turned to her moody companion .
`` Chester , '' she said , as tranquilly as if about to ask him the most ordinary question in the world , `` why did you climb into my house last night and try to steal my money ? ''
Ches Maybin started convulsively , as if he meant to spring from the buggy at once , but Miss Calista's hand was on his arm in a grasp none the less firm because of its gentleness , and there was a warning gleam in her grey eyes .
`` It won't mend matters trying to get clear of me , Chester .
I know it was you and I want an answer -- a truthful one , mind you -- to my question .
I am your friend , and I am not going to harm you if you tell me the truth . ''
Her clear and incisive gaze met and held irresistibly the boy's wavering one .
The sullen obstinacy of his face relaxed .
`` Well , '' he muttered finally , `` I was just desperate , that's why .
I've never done anything real bad in my life before , but people have always been down on me .
I 'm blamed for everything , and nobody wants anything to do with me .
I 'm willing to work , but I can't get a thing to do .
I 'm in rags and I haven't a cent , and winter's coming on .
I heard you telling Mrs. Galloway yesterday about the money .
I was behind the fir hedge and you didn't see me .
I went away and planned it all out .
I 'd get in some way -- and I meant to use the money to get away out west as far from here as I could , and begin life there , where nobody knew me , and where I 'd have some sort of a chance .
I've never had any here .
You can put me in jail now , if you like -- they'll feed and clothe me there , anyhow , and I'll be on a level with the rest . ''
The boy had blurted it all out sullenly and half-chokingly .
A world of rebellion and protest against the fate that had always dragged him down was couched in his voice .
Miss Calista drew Dapple to a standstill before her gate .
`` I 'm not going to send you to jail , Chester .
I believe you've told me the truth .
Yesterday you wanted me to give you Caleb's place and I refused .
Well , I offer it to you now .
If you'll come , I'll hire you , and give you as good wages as I gave him . ''
Ches Maybin looked incredulous .
`` Miss Calista , you can't mean it . ''
`` I do mean it , every word .
You say you have never had a chance .
Well , I am going to give you one -- a chance to get on the right road and make a man of yourself .
Nobody shall ever know about last night's doings from me , and I'll make it my business to forget them if you deserve it .
What do you say ? ''
Ches lifted his head and looked her squarely in the face .
`` I'll come , '' he said huskily .
`` It ain't no use to try and thank you , Miss Calista .
But I'll live my thanks . ''
And he did .
The good people of Cooperstown held up their hands in horror when they heard that Miss Calista had hired Ches Maybin , and prophesied that the deluded woman would live to repent her rash step .
But not all prophecies come true .
Miss Calista smiled serenely and kept on her own misguided way .
And Ches Maybin proved so efficient and steady that the arrangement was continued , and in due time people outlived their old suspicions and came to regard him as a thoroughly smart and trustworthy young man .
`` Miss Calista has made a man of Ches Maybin , '' said the oracles .
`` He ought to be very grateful to her . ''
And he was .
But only he and Miss Calista and the peppermint bottle ever knew the precise extent of his gratitude , and they never told .
