`` I guess the molasses is getting low , ain't it ? ''
said Pa Sloane insinuatingly .
`` S'pose I 'd better drive up to Carmody this afternoon and get some more . ''
`` There's a good half-gallon of molasses in the jug yet , '' said ma Sloane ruthlessly .
`` That so ?
Well , I noticed the kerosene demijohn wasn't very hefty the last time I filled the can .
Reckon it needs replenishing . ''
`` We have kerosene enough to do for a fortnight yet . ''
Ma continued to eat her dinner with an impassive face , but a twinkle made itself apparent in her eye .
Lest Pa should see it , and feel encouraged thereby , she looked immovably at her plate .
Pa Sloane sighed .
His invention was giving out .
`` Didn't I hear you say day before yesterday that you were out of nutmegs ? ''
he queried , after a few moments ' severe reflection .
`` I got a supply of them from the egg-pedlar yesterday , '' responded Ma , by a great effort preventing the twinkle from spreading over her entire face .
She wondered if this third failure would squelch Pa. .
But Pa was not to be squelched .
`` Well , anyway , '' he said , brightening up under the influence of a sudden saving inspiration .
`` I'll have to go up to get the sorrel mare shod .
So , if you've any little errands you want done at the store , Ma , just make a memo of them while I hitch up . ''
The matter of shoeing the sorrel mare was beyond Ma's province , although she had her own suspicions about the sorrel mare's need of shoes .
`` Why can't you give up beating about the bush , Pa ? ''
she demanded , with contemptuous pity .
`` You might as well own up what's taking you to Carmody .
I can see through your design .
You want to get away to the Garland auction .
That is what is troubling you , Pa Sloane . ''
`` I dunno but what I might step over , seeing it's so handy .
But the sorrel mare really does need shoeing , Ma , '' protested Pa. .
`` There's always something needing to be done if it's convenient , '' retorted Ma .
`` Your mania for auctions will be the ruin of you yet , Pa. .
A man of fifty-five ought to have grown out of such a hankering .
But the older you get the worse you get .
Anyway , if I wanted to go to auctions , I 'd select them as was something like , and not waste my time on little one-horse affairs like this of Garland's . ''
`` One might pick up something real cheap at Garland's , '' said Pa defensively .
`` Well , you are not going to pick up anything , cheap or otherwise , Pa Sloane , because I 'm going with you to see that you don't .
I know I can't stop you from going .
I might as well try to stop the wind from blowing .
But I shall go , too , out of self-defence .
This house is so full now of old clutter and truck that you've brought home from auctions that I feel as if I was made up out of pieces and left overs . ''
Pa Sloane sighed again .
It was not exhilarating to attend an auction with Ma .
She would never let him bid on anything .
But he realized that Ma's mind was made up beyond the power of mortal man's persuasion to alter it , so he went out to hitch up .
Pa Sloane's dissipation was going to auctions and buying things that nobody else would buy .
Ma Sloane's patient endeavours of over thirty years had been able to effect only a partial reform .
Sometimes Pa heroically refrained from going to an auction for six months at a time ; then he would break out worse than ever , go to all that took place for miles around , and come home with a wagonful of misfits .
His last exploit had been to bid on an old dasher churn for five dollars -- the boys `` ran things up '' on Pa Sloane for the fun of it -- and bring it home to outraged Ma , who had made her butter for fifteen years in the very latest , most up-to-date barrel churn .
To add insult to injury this was the second dasher churn Pa had bought at auction .
That settled it .
Ma decreed that henceforth she would chaperon Pa when he went to auctions .
But this was the day of Pa's good angel .
When he drove up to the door where Ma was waiting , a breathless , hatless imp of ten flew into the yard , and hurled himself between Ma and the wagon-step .
`` Oh , Mrs. Sloane , won't you come over to our house at once ? ''
he gasped .
`` The baby , he's got colic , and ma's just wild , and he's all black in the face . ''
Ma went , feeling that the stars in their courses fought against a woman who was trying to do her duty by her husband .
But first she admonished Pa. .
`` I shall have to let you go alone .
But I charge you , Pa , not to bid on anything -- on ANYTHING , do you hear ? ''
Pa heard and promised to heed , with every intention of keeping his promise .
Then he drove away joyfully .
On any other occasion Ma would have been a welcome companion .
But she certainly spoiled the flavour of an auction .
When Pa arrived at the Carmody store , he saw that the little yard of the Garland place below the hill was already full of people .
The auction had evidently begun ; so , not to miss any more of it , Pa hurried down .
The sorrel mare could wait for her shoes until afterwards .
Ma had been within bounds when she called the Garland auction a `` one-horse affair . ''
It certainly was very paltry , especially when compared to the big Donaldson auction of a month ago , which Pa still lived over in happy dreams .
Horace Garland and his wife had been poor .
When they died within six weeks of each other , one of consumption and one of pneumonia , they left nothing but debts and a little furniture .
The house had been a rented one .
The bidding on the various poor articles of household gear put up for sale was not brisk , but had an element of resigned determination .
Carmody people knew that these things had to be sold to pay the debts , and they could not be sold unless they were bought .
Still , it was a very tame affair .
A woman came out of the house carrying a baby of about eighteen months in her arms , and sat down on the bench beneath the window .
`` There's Marthy Blair with the Garland Baby , '' said Robert Lawson to Pa. .
`` I 'd like to know what's to become of that poor young one ! ''
`` Ain't there any of the father's or mother's folks to take him ? ''
asked Pa. .
`` No .
Horace had no relatives that anybody ever heard of .
Mrs. Horace had a brother ; but he went to Mantioba years ago , and nobody knows where he is now .
Somebody'll have to take the baby and nobody seems anxious to .
I've got eight myself , or I 'd think about it .
He's a fine little chap . ''
Pa , with Ma's parting admonition ringing in his ears , did not bid on anything , although it will never be known how great was the heroic self-restraint he put on himself , until just at the last , when he did bid on a collection of flower-pots , thinking he might indulge himself to that small extent .
But Josiah Sloane had been commissioned by his wife to bring those flower-pots home to her ; so Pa lost them .
`` There , that's all , '' said the auctioneer , wiping his face , for the day was very warm for October .
`` There's nothing more unless we sell the baby . ''
A laugh went through the crowd .
The sale had been a dull affair , and they were ready for some fun .
Someone called out , `` Put him up , Jacob . ''
The joke found favour and the call was repeated hilariously .
Jacob Blair took little Teddy Garland out of Martha's arms and stood him up on the table by the door , steadying the small chap with one big brown hand .
The baby had a mop of yellow curls , and a pink and white face , and big blue eyes .
He laughed out at the men before him and waved his hands in delight .
Pa Sloane thought he had never seen so pretty a baby .
`` Here's a baby for sale , '' shouted the auctioneer .
`` A genuine article , pretty near as good as brand-new .
A real live baby , warranted to walk and talk a little .
Who bids ?
A dollar ?
Did I hear anyone mean enough to bid a dollar ?
No , sir , babies don't come as cheap as that , especially the curly-headed brand . ''
The crowd laughed again .
Pa Sloane , by way of keeping on the joke , cried , `` Four dollars ! ''
Everybody looked at him .
The impression flashed through the crowd that Pa was in earnest , and meant thus to signify his intention of giving the baby a home .
He was well-to-do , and his only son was grown up and married .
`` Six , '' cried out John Clarke from the other side of the yard .
John Clarke lived at White Sands and he and his wife were childless .
That bid of John Clarke's was Pa's undoing .
Pa Sloane could not have an enemy ; but a rival he had , and that rival was John Clarke .
Everywhere at auctions John Clarke was wont to bid against Pa. .
At the last auction he had outbid Pa in everything , not having the fear of his wife before his eyes .
Pa's fighting blood was up in a moment ; he forgot Ma Sloane ; he forgot what he was bidding for ; he forgot everything except a determination that John Clarke should not be victor again .
`` Ten , '' he called shrilly .
`` Fifteen , '' shouted Clarke .
`` Twenty , '' vociferated Pa. .
`` Twenty-five , '' bellowed Clarke .
`` Thirty , '' shrieked Pa. .
He nearly bust a blood-vessel in his shrieking , but he had won .
Clarke turned off with a laugh and a shrug , and the baby was knocked down to Pa Sloane by the auctioneer , who had meanwhile been keeping the crowd in roars of laughter by a quick fire of witticisms .
There had not been such fun at an auction in Carmody for many a long day .
Pa Sloane came , or was pushed , forward .
The baby was put into his arms ; he realized that he was expected to keep it , and he was too dazed to refuse ; besides , his heart went out to the child .
The auctioneer looked doubtfully at the money which Pa laid mutely down .
`` I s ` pose that part was only a joke , '' he said .
`` Not a bit of it , '' said Robert Lawson .
`` All the money won't bee too much to pay the debts .
There's a doctor's bill , and this will just about pay it . ''
Pa Sloane drove back home , with the sorrel mare still unshod , the baby , and the baby's meager bundle of clothes .
The baby did not trouble him much ; it had become well used to strangers in the past two months , and promptly fell asleep on his arm ; but Pa Sloane did not enjoy that drive ; at the end of it ; he mentally saw Ma Sloane .
Ma was there , too , waiting for him on the back door-step as he drove into the yard at sunset .
Her face , when she saw the baby , expressed the last degree of amazement .
`` Pa Sloane , '' she demanded , `` whose is that young one , and there did you get it ? ''
`` I -- I -- bought it at the auction , Ma , '' said Pa feebly .
Then he waited for the explosion .
None came .
This last exploit of Pa's was too much for Ma .
With a gasp she snatched the baby from Pa's arms , and ordered him to go out and put the mare in .
When Pa returned to the kitchen Ma had set the baby on the sofa , fenced him around with chairs so that he couldn't fall off and given him a molassed cooky .
`` Now , Pa Sloane , you can explain , '' she said .
Pa explained .
Ma listened in grim silence until he had finished .
Then she said sternly : `` Do you reckon we 're going to keep this baby ? ''
`` I -- I -- dunno , '' said Pa. .
And he didn't .
`` Well , we 're NOT .
I brought up one boy and that's enough .
I don't calculate to be pestered with any more .
I never was much struck on children as children , anyhow .
You say that Mary Garland had a brother out in Mantioba ?
Well , we shall just write to him and tell him he's got to look out for his nephew . ''
`` But how can you do that , Ma , when nobody knows his address ? ''
objected Pa , with a wistful look at that delicious , laughing baby .
`` I'll find out his address if I have to advertise in the papers for him , '' retorted Ma .
`` As for you , Pa Sloane , you 're not fit to be out of a lunatic asylum .
The next auction you'll be buying a wife , I s ` pose ? ''
Pa , quite crushed by Ma's sarcasm , pulled his chair in to supper .
Ma picked up the baby and sat down at the head of the table .
Little Teddy laughed and pinched her face -- Ma's face !
Ma looked very grim , but she fed him his supper as skilfully as if it had not been thirty years since she had done such a thing .
But then , the woman who once learns the mother knack never forgets it .
After tea Ma despatched Pa over to William Alexander's to borrow a high chair .
When Pa returned in the twilight , the baby was fenced in on the sofa again , and Ma was stepping briskly about the garret .
She was bringing down the little cot bed her own boy had once occupied , and setting it up in their room for Teddy .
Then she undressed the baby and rocked him to sleep , crooning an old lullaby over him .
Pa Sloane sat quietly and listened , with very sweet memories of the long ago , when he and Ma had been young and proud , and the bewhiskered William Alexander had been a curly-headed little fellow like this one .
Ma was not driven to advertising for Mrs. Garland's brother .
That personage saw the notice of his sister's death in a home paper and wrote to the Carmody postmaster for full information .
The letter was referred to Ma and Ma answered it .
She wrote that they had taken in the baby , pending further arrangements , but had no intention of keeping it ; and she calmly demanded of its uncle what was to be done with it .
Then she sealed and addressed the letter with an unfaltering hand ; but , when it was done , she looked across the table at Pa Sloane , who was sitting in the armchair with the baby on his knee .
They were having a royal good time together .
Pa had always been dreadfully foolish about babies .
He looked ten years younger .
Ma's keen eyes softened a little as she watched them .
A prompt answer came to her letter .
Teddy's uncle wrote that he had six children of his own , but was nevertheless willing and glad to give his little nephew a home .
But he could not come after him .
Josiah Spencer , of White Sands , was going out to Manitoba in the spring .
If Mr. and Mrs. Sloane could only keep the baby till then he could be sent out with the Spencers .
Perhaps they would see a chance sooner .
`` There'll be no chance sooner , '' said Pa Sloane in a tone of satisfaction .
`` No , worse luck ! ''
retorted Ma crisply .
The winter passed by .
Little Teddy grew and throve , and Pa Sloane worshipped him .
Ma was very good to him , too , and Teddy was just as fond of her as of Pa. .
Nevertheless , as the spring drew near , Pa became depressed .
Sometimes he sighed heavily , especially when he heard casual references to the Josiah Spencer emigration .
One warm afternoon in early May Josiah Spencer arrived .
He found Ma knitting placidly in the kitchen , while Pa nodded over his newspaper and the baby played with the cat on the floor .
`` Good afternoon , Mrs. Sloane , '' said Josiah with a flourish .
`` I just dropped in to see about this young man here .
We are going to leave next Wednesday ; so you 'd better send him down to our place Monday or Tuesday , so that he can get used to us , and -- '' `` Oh , Ma , '' began Pa , rising imploringly to his feet .
Ma transfixed him with her eye .
`` Sit down , Pa , '' she commanded .
Unhappy Pa sat .
Then Ma glared at the smiling Josiah , who instantly felt as guilty as if he had been caught stealing sheep red-handed .
`` We are much obliged to you , Mr. Spencer , '' said Ma icily , `` but this baby is OURS .
We bought him , and we paid for him .
A bargain is a bargain .
When I pay cash down for babies , I propose to get my money's worth .
We are going to keep this baby in spite of any number of uncles in Manitoba .
Have I made this sufficiently clear to your understanding , Mr. Spencer ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly , '' stammered the unfortunate man , feeling guiltier than ever , `` but I thought you didn't want him -- I thought you 'd written to his uncle -- I thought -- '' `` I really wouldn't think quite so much if I were you , '' said Ma kindly .
`` It must be hard on you .
Won't you stay and have tea with us ? ''
But , no , Josiah would not stay .
He was thankful to make his escape with such rags of self-respect as remained to him .
Pa Sloane arose and came around to Ma's chair .
He laid a trembling hand on her shoulder .
`` Ma , you 're a good woman , '' he said softly .
`` Go ` long , Pa , '' said Ma .
