I have often wondered what the various statues standing about the city think of all day , and what criticisms they would make upon us and our doings , if they could speak .
I frequently stop and stare at them , wondering if they don't feel lonely ; if they wouldn't be glad of a nod as we go by ; and I always long to offer my umbrella to shield their uncovered heads on a rainy day , especially to good Ben Franklin , when the snow lies white on his benevolent forehead .
I was always fond of this old gentleman ; and one of my favourite stories when a little girl , was that of his early life , and the time when he was so poor he walked about Philadelphia with a roll of bread under each arm , eating a third as he went .
I never pass without giving him a respectful look , and wishing he could know how grateful I am for all he had done in the printing line ; for , without types and presses , where would the books be ?
Well , I never imagined that he understood why the tall woman in the big bonnet stared at him ; but he did , and he liked it , and managed to let me know it in a very curious manner , as you shall hear .
As I look out , the first thing I see is the great gilt eagle on the City-Hall dome .
There he sits , with open wings , all day long , looking down on the people , who must appear like ants scampering busily to and fro about an ant-hill .
The sun shines on him splendidly in the morning ; the gay flag waves and rustles in the wind above him sometimes ; and the moonlight turns him to silver when she comes glittering up the sky .
When it rains he never shakes his feathers ; snow beats on him without disturbing his stately repose ; and he never puts his head under his wing at night , but keeps guard in darkness as in day , like a faithful sentinel .
I like the big , lonely bird , call him my particular fowl , and often wish he 'd turn his head and speak to me .
One night he did actually do it , or seemed to ; for I've never been able to decide whether I dreamed what I 'm going to tell you , or whether it really happened .
It was a stormy night !
and , as I drew down my curtain , I said to myself , after peering through the driving snow to catch a glimpse of my neighbour , ` Poor Goldy !
he'll have a rough time of it .
I hope this northeaster won't blow him off his perch . '
Then I sat down by my fire , took my knitting , and began to meditate .
I 'm sure I didn't fall asleep ; but I can't prove it , so we'll say no more about it .
All at once there came a tap at my door , as I thought ; and I said ` Come in , ' just as Mr. Poe did when that unpleasant raven paid him a call .
No one came , so I went to see who it was .
Not a sign of a human soul in the long hall , only little Jessie , the poodle , asleep on her mat .
Down I sat ; but in a minute the tap came again ; this time so loud that I knew it was at the window , and went to open it , thinking that one of my doves wanted to come in perhaps .
Up went the sash , and in bounced something so big and so bright that it dazzled and scared me .
` Don't be frightened , ma'am ; it's only me , ' said a hoarse voice .
So I collected my wits , rubbed my eyes , and looked at my visitor .
It was the gold eagle off the City Hall !
I don't expect to be believed ; but I wish you 'd been here to see , for I give you my word , it was a sight to behold .
How he ever got in at such a small window I can't tell ; but there he was , strutting majestically up and down the room , his golden plumage rustling , and his keen eyes flashing as he walked .
I really didn't know what to do .
I couldn't imagine what he came for ; I had my doubts about the propriety of offering him a chair ; and he was so much bigger than I expected that I was afraid he might fly away with me , as the roc did with Sindbad : so I did nothing but sidle to the door , ready to whisk out , if my strange guest appeared to be peckishly inclined .
My respectful silence seemed to suit him ; for , after a turn or two , he paused , nodded gravely , and said affably , ` Good-evening , ma'am .
I stepped over to bring you old Ben's respects , and to see how you were getting on . '
` I 'm very much obliged , sir .
May I inquire who Mr. Old-Ben is ?
I 'm afraid I haven't the honour of his acquaintance . '
` Yes , you have ; it's Ben Franklin , of City-Hall yard .
You know him ; and he wished me to thank you for your interest in him . '
` Dear me !
how very odd !
Will you sit down , sir ? '
` Never sit !
I'll perch here ; ' and the great fowl took his accustomed attitude just in front of the fire , looking so very splendid that I couldn't keep my eyes off of him .
` Ah !
you often do that .
Never mind ; I rather like it , ' said the eagle , graciously , as he turned his brilliant eye upon me .
I was rather abashed ; but being very curious , I ventured to ask a few questions , as he seemed in a friendly mood .
` Being a woman , sir , I 'm naturally of an inquiring turn ; and I must confess that I have a strong desire to know how it happens that you take your walks abroad , when you are supposed to be permanently engaged at home ? '
He shrugged his shoulders , and actually winked at me , as he replied , ` That's all people know of what goes on under , or rather over , their noses .
Bless you , ma'am !
I leave my roost every night , and enjoy myself in all sorts of larks .
Excuse the expression ; but , being ornithological , it is more proper for me than for some people who use it . '
` What a gay old bird ! '
thought I , feeling quite at home after that .
` Please tell me what you do , when the shades of evening prevail , and you go out for a frolic ? ' '
I am a gentleman ; therefore I behave myself , ' returned the eagle ; with a stately air . '
I must confess , I smoke a great deal : but that's not my fault , it's the fault of the chimneys .
They keep it up all day , and I have to take it ; just as you poor ladies have to take cigar smoke , whether you like it or not .
My amusements are of a wholesome kind .
I usually begin by taking a long flight down the harbour , for a look at the lighthouses , the islands , the shipping , and the sea .
My friends , the gulls , bring their reports to me ; for they are the harbour-police , and I take notes of their doings .
The school-ship is an object of interest to me , and I often perch on the mast-head , to see how the lads are getting on .
Then I take a turn over the city , gossip with the weathercocks , pay my compliments to the bells , inspect the fire-alarm , and pick up information by listening at the telegraph wires .
People often talk about `` a little bird '' who spreads news ; but they don't know how that figure of speech originated .
It is the sparrows sitting on the wires , who receive the electric shock , and , being hollow-boned , the news go straight to their heads ; they then fly about , chirping it on the housetops , and the air carries it everywhere .
That's the way rumours rise and news spread . '
` If you'll allow , I'll make a note of that interesting fact , ' said I , wondering if I might believe him .
He appeared to fall into a reverie while I jotted down the sparrow story , and it occurred to me that perhaps I ought to offer my distinguished guest some refreshment ; but , when I modestly alluded to it , he said , with an aldermanic air , ` No , thank you ; I've just dined at the Parker House . '
Now , I really could not swallow that ; and so plainly betrayed my incredulity , that the eagle explained .
` The savoury smells which rise to my nostrils from that excellent hotel , with an occasional sniff from the Tremont , are quite sufficient to satisfy my appetite ; for , having no stomach , I don't need much food , and I drink nothing but water . ' '
I wish others would follow your example in that latter habit , ' said I , respectfully , for I was beginning to see that there was something in my bird , though he was hollow .
` Will you allow me to ask if the other statues in the city fly by night ? '
` They promenade in the parks ; and occasionally have social gatherings , when they discuss politics , education , medicine , or any of the subjects in which they are interested .
Ah !
we have grand times when you are all asleep .
It quite repays me for being obliged to make an owl of myself . '
` Do the statues come from the shops to these parties ? '
I asked , resolving to take a late walk the next moonlight night .
` Sometimes ; but they get lazy and delicate , living in close , warm places .
We laugh at cold and bad weather , and are so strong and hearty that I shouldn't be surprised if I saw Webster and Everett flying round the Common on the new-fashioned velocipedes , for they believed in exercise .
Goethe and Schiller often step over from De Vries's window , to flirt with the goddesses , who come down from their niches on Horticultural Hall .
Nice , robust young women are Pomona and Flora .
If your niminy-piminy girls could see them run , they would stop tilting through the streets , and learn that the true Grecian Bend is the line of beauty always found in straight shoulders , well-opened chest , and an upright figure , firmly planted on active feet . '
` In your rambles don't you find a great deal of misery ? '
said I , to change the subject , for he was evidently old-fashioned in his notions .
` Many sad sights ! '
And he shook his head with a sigh ; then added , briskly , ` But there is a deal of charity in our city , and it does its work beautifully .
By the by , I heard of a very sweet charity the other day , -- a church whose Sunday school is open to all the poor children who will come ; and there , in pleasant rooms , with books , pictures , kindly teachers , and a fatherly minister to welcome them , the poor little creatures find refreshment for their hungry souls .
I like that ; it's a lovely illustration of the text , `` Suffer little children to come unto me ; '' and I call it practical Christianity . '
He did like it , my benevolent old bird ; for he rustled his great wings , as if he wanted to clap them , if there had only been room ; and every feather shone as if a clearer light than that of my little fire had fallen on it as he spoke .
` You are a literary woman , hey ? '
he said suddenly , as if he 'd got a new idea , and was going to pounce upon me with it .
` Ahem !
I do a little in that line , ' I answered , with a modest cough .
` Then tell people about that place ; write some stories for the children ; go and help teach them ; do something , and make others do what they can to increase the sabbath sunshine that brightens one day in the week for the poor babies who live in shady places . ' '
I should be glad to do my best ; and , if I 'd known before ' -- I began .
` You might have known , if you 'd looked about you .
People are so wrapt up in their own affairs they don't do half they might .
Now , then , hand me a bit of paper , and I'll give you the address , so you won't have any excuse for forgetting what I tell you . '
` Mercy on us ; what will he do next ? '
thought I , as he tweaked a feather out of his breast , gave the nib a peck , and then coolly wrote these words on the card I handed him : ' Church of the Disciples .
Knock and it shall be opened !
' There it was , in letters of gold ; and , while I looked at it , feeling reproached that I hadn't known it sooner , my friend , -- he didn't seem a stranger any more , -- said in a business-like tone , as he put back his pen , ` Now I must be off .
Old Ben reads an article on the `` Abuses of the Press at the present day , '' and I must be there to report . '
` It must be very interesting .
I suppose you don't allow mortals at your meetings ? '
said I , burning to go , in spite of the storm .
` No , ma'am .
We meet on the Common ; and , in the present state of the weather , I don't think flesh and blood would stand it .
Bronze , marble , and wood are sterner stuff , and can defy the elements . '
` Good evening ; pray , call again , ' I said , hospitably . '
I will ; your eyrie suits me : but don't expect me to call in the daytime .
I 'm on duty then , and can't take my eye off my charge .
The city needs a deal of watching , my dear .
Bless me !
it's striking eight .
Your watch is seven minutes slow by the Old South .
Good-night , good-night ! '
And as I opened the window , the great bird soared away like a flash of light through the storm , leaving me so astonished at the whole performance that I haven't got over it yet .
