It was a gloomy Saturday morning .
The trees in the Oaklawn grounds were tossing wildly in the gusts of wind , and sodden brown leaves were blown up against the windows of the library , where a score of girls were waiting for the principal to bring the mail in .
The big room echoed with the pleasant sound of girlish voices and low laughter , for in a fortnight school would close for the holidays , and they were all talking about their plans and anticipations .
Only Ruth Mannering was , as usual , sitting by herself near one of the windows , looking out on the misty lawn .
She was a pale , slender girl , with a sad face , and was dressed in rather shabby black .
She had no special friend at Oaklawn , and the other girls did not know much about her .
If they had thought about it at all , they would probably have decided that they did not like her ; but for the most part they simply overlooked her .
This was not altogether their fault .
Ruth was poor and apparently friendless , but it was not her poverty that was against her .
Lou Scott , who was `` as poor as a church mouse , '' to quote her own frank admission , was the most popular girl in the seminary , the boon companion of the richest girls , and in demand with everybody .
But Lou was jolly and frank and offhanded , while Ruth was painfully shy and reserved , and that was the secret of the whole matter .
There was `` no fun in her , '' the girls said , and so it came about that she was left out of their social life , and was almost as solitary at Oaklawn as if she had been the only girl there .
She was there for the special purpose of studying music , and expected to earn her own living by teaching it when she left .
She believed that the girls looked down on her on this account ; this was unjust , of course , but Ruth had no idea how much her own coldness and reserve had worked against her .
Across the room Carol Golden was , as usual , the centre of an animated group ; Golden Carol as her particular friends sometimes called her , partly because of her beautiful voice , and partly because of her wonderful fleece of golden hair .
Carol was one of the seminary pets , and seemed to Ruth Mannering to have everything that she had not .
Presently the mail was brought in , and there was a rush to the table , followed by exclamations of satisfaction or disappointment .
In a few minutes the room was almost deserted .
Only two girls remained : Carol Golden , who had dropped into a big chair to read her many letters ; and Ruth Mannering , who had not received any and had gone silently back to her part of the window .
Presently Carol gave a little cry of delight .
Her mother had written that she might invite any friend she wished home with her to spend the holidays .
Carol had asked for this permission , and now that it had come was ready to dance for joy .
As to whom she would ask , there could be only one answer to that .
Of course it must be her particular friend , Maud Russell , who was the cleverest and prettiest girl at Oaklawn , at least so her admirers said .
She was undoubtedly the richest , and was the acknowledged `` leader . ''
The girls affectionately called her `` Princess , '' and Carol adored her with that romantic affection that is found only among school girls .
She knew , too , that Maud would surely accept her invitation because she did not intend to go home .
Her parents were travelling in Europe , and she expected to spend her holidays with some cousins , who were almost strangers to her .
Carol was so much pleased that she felt as if she must talk to somebody , so she turned to Ruth .
`` Isn't it delightful to think that we'll all be going home in a fortnight ? ''
`` Yes , very -- for those that have homes to go to , '' said Ruth drearily .
Carol felt a quick pang of pity and self-reproach .
`` Haven't you ? ''
she asked .
Ruth shook her head .
In spite of herself , the kindness of Carol's tone brought the tears to her eyes .
`` My mother died a year ago , '' she said in a trembling voice , `` and since then I have had no real home .
We were quite alone in the world , Mother and I , and now I have nobody . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry for you , '' cried Carol impulsively .
She leaned forward and took Ruth's hand in a gentle way .
`` And do you mean to say that you'll have to stay here all through the holidays ?
Why , it will be horrid . ''
`` Oh , I shall not mind it much , '' said Ruth quickly , `` with study and practice most of the time .
Only now , when everyone is talking about it , it makes me wish that I had some place to go . ''
Carol dropped Ruth's hand suddenly in the shock of a sudden idea that darted into her mind .
A stray girl passing through the hall called out , `` Ruth , Miss Siviter wishes to see you about something in Room C. '' Ruth got up quickly .
She was glad to get away , for it seemed to her that in another minute she would break down altogether .
Carol Golden hardly noticed her departure .
She gathered up her letters and went abstractedly to her room , unheeding a gay call for `` Golden Carol '' from a group of girls in the corridor .
Maud Russell was not in and Carol was glad .
She wanted to be alone and fight down that sudden idea .
`` It is ridiculous to think of it , '' she said aloud , with a petulance very unusual in Golden Carol , whose disposition was as sunny as her looks .
`` Why , I simply can not .
I have always been longing to ask Maud to visit me , and now that the chance has come I am not going to throw it away .
I am very sorry for Ruth , of course .
It must be dreadful to be all alone like that .
But it isn't my fault .
And she is so fearfully quiet and dowdy -- what would they all think of her at home ?
Frank and Jack would make such fun of her .
I shall ask Maud just as soon as she comes in . ''
Maud did come in presently , but Carol did not give her the invitation .
Instead , she was almost snappish to her idol , and the Princess soon went out again in something of a huff .
`` Oh , dear , '' cried Carol , `` now I've offended her .
What has got into me ?
What a disagreeable thing a conscience is , although I 'm sure I don't know why mine should be prodding me so !
I don't want to invite Ruth Mannering home with me for the holidays , but I feel exactly as if I should not have a minute's peace of mind all the time if I didn't .
Mother would think it all right , of course .
She would not mind if Ruth dressed in calico and never said anything but yes and no .
But how the boys would laugh !
I simply won't do it , conscience or no conscience . ''
In view of this decision it was rather strange that the next morning , Carol Golden went down to Ruth Mannering's lonely little room on Corridor Two and said , `` Ruth , will you go home with me for the holidays ?
Mother wrote me to invite anyone I wished to .
Don't say you can't come , dear , because you must . ''
Carol never , as long as she lived , forgot Ruth's face at that moment .
`` It was absolutely transfigured , '' she said afterwards .
`` I never saw anyone look so happy in my life . ''
* * * * * A fortnight later unwonted silence reigned at Oaklawn .
The girls were scattered far and wide , and Ruth Mannering and Carol Golden were at the latter's home .
Carol was a very much surprised girl .
Under the influence of kindness and pleasure Ruth seemed transformed into a different person .
Her shyness and reserve melted away in the sunny atmosphere of the Golden home .
Mrs. Golden took her into her motherly heart at once ; and as for Frank and Jack , whose verdict Carol had so dreaded , they voted Ruth `` splendid . ''
She certainly got along very well with them ; and if she did not make the social sensation that pretty Maud Russell might have made , the Goldens all liked her and Carol was content .
`` Just four days more , '' sighed Carol one afternoon , `` and then we must go back to Oaklawn .
Can you realize it , Ruth ? ''
Ruth looked up from her book with a smile .
Even in appearance she had changed .
There was a faint pink in her cheeks and a merry light in her eyes .
`` I shall not be sorry to go back to work , '' she said .
`` I feel just like it because I have had so pleasant a time here that it has heartened me up for next term .
I think it will be very different from last .
I begin to see that I kept to myself too much and brooded over fancied slights . ''
`` And then you are to room with me since Maud is not coming back , '' said Carol .
`` What fun we shall have .
Did you ever toast marshmallows over the gas ?
Why , I declare , there is Mr. Swift coming up the walk .
Look , Ruth !
He is the richest man in Westleigh . ''
Ruth peeped out of the window over Carol's shoulder .
`` He reminds me of somebody , '' she said absently , `` but I can't think who it is .
Of course , I have never seen him before .
What a good face he has ! ''
`` He is as good as he looks , '' said Carol , enthusiastically .
`` Next to Father , Mr. Swift is the nicest man in the world .
I have always been quite a pet of his .
His wife is dead , and so is his only daughter .
She was a lovely girl and died only two years ago .
It nearly broke Mr. Swift's heart .
And he has lived alone ever since in that great big house up at the head of Warner Street , the one you admired so , Ruth , the last time we were uptown .
There's the bell for the second time , Mary can't have heard it .
I'll go myself . ''
As Carol showed the caller into the room , Ruth rose to leave and thus came face to face with him .
Mr. Swift started perceptibly .
`` Mr. Swift , this is my school friend , Miss Mannering , '' said Carol .
Mr. Swift seemed strangely agitated as he took Ruth's timidly offered hand .
`` My dear young lady , '' he said hurriedly , `` I am going to ask you what may seem a very strange question .
What was your mother's name ? ''
`` Agnes Hastings , '' answered Ruth in surprise .
And then Carol really thought that Mr. Swift had gone crazy , for he drew Ruth into his arms and kissed her .
`` I knew it , '' he said .
`` I was sure you were Agnes ' daughter , for you are the living image of what she was when I last saw her .
Child , you don't know me , but I am your Uncle Robert .
Your mother was my half-sister . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Swift ! ''
cried Carol , and then she ran for her mother .
Ruth turned pale and dropped into a chair , and Mr. Swift sat down beside her .
`` To think that I have found you at last , child .
How puzzled you look .
Did your mother never speak of me ?
How is she ?
Where is she ? ''
`` Mother died last year , '' said Ruth .
`` Poor Agnes !
And I never knew !
Don't cry , little girl .
I want you to tell me all about it .
She was much younger than I was , and when our mother died my stepfather went away and took her with him .
I remained with my father's people and eventually lost all trace of my sister .
I was a poor boy then , but things have looked up with me and I have often tried to find her . ''
By this time Carol had returned with her father and mother , and there was a scene -- laughing , crying , explaining -- and I don't really know which of the two girls was the more excited , Carol or Ruth .
As for Mr. Swift , he was overjoyed to find his niece and wanted to carry her off with him then and there , but Mrs. Golden insisted on her finishing her visit .
When the question of returning to Oaklawn came up , Mr. Swift would not hear of it at first , but finally yielded to Carol's entreaties and Ruth's own desire .
`` I shall graduate next year , Uncle , and then I can come back to you for good . ''
That evening when Ruth was alone in her room , trying to collect her thoughts and realize that the home and love that she had so craved were really to be hers at last , Golden Carol was with her mother in the room below , talking it all over .
`` Just think , Mother , if I had not asked Ruth to come here , this would not have happened .
And I didn't want to , I wanted to ask Maud so much , and I was dreadfully disappointed when I couldn't -- for I really couldn't .
I could not help remembering the look in Ruth's eyes when she said that she had no home to go to , and so I asked her instead of Maud .
How dreadful it would have been if I hadn't . ''
