The square , bare front room of the Baxter Station Hotel -- so called because there was no other house in the place to dispute the title -- was filled with men .
Some of them were putting up at the hotel while they worked at the new branch line , and some of them had dropped in to exchange news and banter while waiting for the mail train .
Gabe Foley , the proprietor , was playing at checkers with one of the railroad men , but was not too deeply absorbed in the game to take in all that was said around him .
The air was dim with tobacco smoke , and the brilliant , scarlet geraniums which Mrs. Foley kept in the bay window looked oddly out of place .
Gabe knew all those present except one man -- a stranger who had landed at Baxter Station from the afternoon freight .
Foley 's hotel did not boast of a register , and the stranger did not volunteer any information regarding his name or business .
He had put in the afternoon and early evening strolling about the village and talking to the men on the branch line .
Now he had come in and ensconced himself in the corner behind the stove , where he preserved a complete silence .
He had a rather rough face and was flashily dressed .
Altogether , Gabe hardly liked his looks , put as long as a man paid his bill and did not stir up a row Gabe Foley did not interfere with him .
Three or four farmers from `` out Greenvale way '' were drawn up by the stove , discussing the cheese factory sales and various Greenvale happenings .
The stranger appeared to be listening to them intently , although he took no part in their conversation .
Presently he brought his tilted chair down with a sharp thud .
Gabe Foley had paused in his manipulation of a king to hurl a question at the Greenvale men .
`` Is it true that old man Strong is to be turned out next week ? ''
`` True enough , '' answered William Jeffers .
`` Joe Moore is going to foreclose .
Stephen Strong has got three years behind with the interest and Moore is out of patience .
It seems hard on old Stephen , but Moore ain't the man to hesitate for that .
he'll have his own out of it . ''
`` What will the Strongs do ? ''
asked Gabe .
`` That 's the question everyone in Greenvale is asking .
Lizzie Strong has always been a delicate little girl , but maybe she'll manage to scare up a living .
Old Stephen is to be the most pitied .
I don't see anything for him but the poorhouse . ''
`` How did Stephen Strong come to get into such a tight place ? ''
the stranger asked suddenly .
`` When I was in these parts a good many years ago he was considered a well-to-do man . ''
`` Well , so he was , '' replied William Jeffers .
`` But he began to get in debt when his wife took sick .
He spent no end of money on doctors and medicines for her .
And then he seemed to have a streak of bad luck besides -- crops failed and cows died and all that sort of thing .
He 's been going behind ever since .
He kind of lost heart when his wife died .
And now Moore is going to foreclose .
It 's my opinion poor old Stephen won't live any time if he 's turned out of his home . ''
`` Do you know what the mortgage comes to ? ''
`` Near three thousand , counting overdue interest . ''
`` Well , I 'm sorry for old Stephen , '' said Gabe , returning to his game .
`` If anybody deserves a peaceful old age he does .
He 's helped more people than you could count , and he was the best Christian in Greenvale , or out of it . ''
`` He was too good , '' said a Greenvale man crustily .
`` He just let himself be imposed upon all his life .
There 's dozens of people owes him and he 's never asked for a cent from them .
And he 's always had some shiftless critter or other hanging round and devouring his substance . ''
`` D'ye mind that Ben Butler who used to be in Greenvale twenty years ago ? ''
asked a third man .
`` If ever there was an imp of Satan 't was him -- old Ezra Butler 's son from the valley .
Old Stephen kept him for three or four years and was as good to him as if he 'd been his own son . ''
`` Most people out our way do mind Ben Butler , '' returned William Jeffers grimly , `` even if he ain't been heard tell of for twenty years .
He wasn't the kind you could forget in a hurry .
Where 'd he go ?
Out to the Kootenay , wasn't it ? ''
`` Somewhere there .
He was a reg ` lar young villain -- up to every kind of mischief .
Old Stephen caught him stealing his oats one time and ` stead of giving him a taste of jail for it , as he ought to have done , he just took him right into his family and kept him there for three years .
I used to tell him he 'd be sorry for it , but he always persisted that Ben wasn't bad at heart and would come out all right some day .
No matter what the young varmint did old Stephen would make excuses for him -- ` his ma was dead , ' or he ` hadn't had no bringing-up . '
I was thankful when he did finally clear out without doing some penitentiary work . ''
`` If poor old Stephen hadn't been so open-handed to every unfortunate critter he came across , '' said Gabe , `` he 'd have had more for himself today . ''
The whistle of the mail train cut short the discussion of Stephen Strong 's case .
In a minute the room was vacant , except for the stranger .
When left to himself he also rose and walked out .
Turning away from the station , he struck briskly into the Greenvale road .
About three miles from the station he halted before a house built close to the road .
It was old-fashioned , but large and comfortable-looking , with big barns in the rear and an orchard on the left slope .
The house itself was in the shadow of the firs , but the yard lay out in the moonlight and the strange visitor did not elect to cross it .
Instead , he turned aside into the shadow of the trees around the garden and , leaning against the old rail fence , gave himself up to contemplation of some kind .
There was a light in the kitchen .
The window-blind was not down and he had a fairly good view of the room .
The only visible occupant was a grey-haired old man sitting by the table , reading from a large open volume before him .
The stranger whistled softly .
`` That 's old Stephen -- reading the Bible same as ever , by all that 's holy !
He hasn't changed much except that he 's got mighty grey .
He must be close on to seventy .
It 's a shame to turn an old man like him out of house and home .
But Joe Moore always was a genuine skinflint . ''
He drew himself softly up and sat on the fence .
He saw old Stephen Strong close his book , place his spectacles on it , and kneel down by his chair .
The old man remained on his knees for some time and then , taking up his candle , left the kitchen .
The man on the fence still sat there .
Truth to tell , he was chuckling to himself as he recalled all the mischief he had done in the old days -- the doubtful jokes , tricks , and escapades he had gone through with .
He could not help remembering at the same time how patient old Stephen Strong had always been with him .
He recalled the time he had been caught stealing the oats .
How frightened and sullen he had been !
And how gently the old man had talked to him and pointed out the sin of which he had been guilty !
He had never stolen again , but in other respects he had not mended his ways much .
Behind old Stephen 's back he laughed at him and his `` preaching . ''
But Stephen Strong had never lost faith in him .
He had always asserted mildly that `` Ben would come out all right by and by . ''
Ben Butler remembered this too , as he sat on the fence .
He had `` always liked old Stephen , '' he told himself .
He was sorry he had fallen on such evil times .
`` Preaching and praying don't seem to have brought him out clear after all , '' he said with a chuckle that quickly died away .
Somehow , even in his worst days , Ben Butler had never felt easy when he mocked old Stephen .
`` Three thousand dollars !
I could do it but I reckon I 'd be a blamed fool .
I ain't a-going to do it .
Three thousand ain't picked up every day , even in the Kootenay -- ` specially by chaps like me . ''
He patted his pocket knowingly .
Fifteen years previously he had gone to the Kootenay district with visions of making a fortune that were quickly dispelled by reality .
He had squandered his wages as soon as paid , and it was only of late years that he had `` pulled up a bit , '' as he expressed it , and saved his three thousand dollars .
He had brought the money home with him , having some vague notion of buying a farm and `` settling down to do the respectable . ''
But he had already given up the idea .
This country was too blamed quiet for him , he said .
He would go back to the Kootenay , and he knew what he would do with his money .
Jake Perkins and Wade Brown , two `` pals '' of his , were running a flourishing grocery and saloon combined .
They would be glad of another partner with some cash .
It would suit him to a T. `` I'll clear out tomorrow , '' he mused as he walked back .
`` As long as I stay here old Stephen will haunt me , sure as fate .
Wonder what he was praying for tonight .
He always used to say the Lord would provide , but He don't appear to have done it .
Well , I ain't His deputy . ''
The next afternoon Ben Butler went over to Greenvale and called at Stephen Strong 's .
He found only the old man at home .
Old Stephen did not recognize him at first , but made him heartily welcome when he did .
`` Ben , I do declare !
Ben Butler !
How are you ?
How are you ?
Sit down , Ben -- here , take this chair .
Where on earth did you come from ? ''
`` Baxter just now -- Kootenay on the large scale , '' answered Ben .
`` Thought I 'd come over and see you again .
didn't expect you 'd remember me at all . ''
`` Remember you !
Why , of course I do .
I haven't ever forgot you , Ben .
Many 's the time I've wondered where you was and how you was getting on .
And you tell me you've been in the Kootenay !
Well , well , you have seen a good bit more of the world than I ever have .
you've changed a lot , Ben .
You ain't a boy no longer .
D'ye mind all the pranks you used to play ? ''
Ben laughed sheepishly .
`` I reckon I do .
But it ain't myself I come here to talk about -- not much to say if I did .
It 's just been up and down with me .
How are you yourself , sir ?
They were telling me over at Baxter that you were kind of in trouble . ''
The old man 's face clouded over ; all the sparkle went out of his kind blue eyes .
`` Yes , Ben , yes , '' he said , with a heavy sigh .
`` I've kind of gone downhill , that 's a fact .
The old farm has to go , Ben -- I 'm sorry for that -- I 'd have liked to have ended my days here , but it 's not to be .
I don't want to complain .
The Lord does all things well .
I haven't a doubt but that it all fits into His wise purposes -- not a doubt , Ben , although it may be kind of hard to see it . ''
Ben was always skittish of `` pious talk . ''
He veered around adroitly .
`` I dunno as the Lord has had much to do with this , sir .
Seems to me as if 't was the other one as was running it , with Joe Moore for deputy .
The main thing , as I look at it , is to get a cinch on him .
How much does the mortgage amount to , sir ? ''
`` About three thousand dollars , interest and all . ''
Old Stephen 's voice trembled .
The future looked very dark to him in his old age .
Ben put his hand inside his coat and brought out a brand-new , plump pocketbook .
He opened it , laid it on his knee , and counted out a number of crisp notes .
`` Here , sir , '' he said , pushing them along the table .
`` I reckon that 'll keep you out of Joe Moore 's clutches .
There 's three thousand there if I ain't made a mistake .
That 'll set you clear , won't it ? ''
`` Ben ! ''
Old Stephen 's voice trembled with amazement .
`` Ben , I can't take it .
It wouldn't be fair -- or right .
I could never pay you back . ''
Ben slipped the rubber band around his wallet and replaced it airily .
`` I don't want it paid back , sir .
It 's a little gift , so to speak , just to let you know I ain't ungrateful for all you did for me .
If it hadn't been for you I might have been in the penitentiary by now .
As for the money , it may seem a pile to you , but we don't think anything more of a thousand or so in the Kootenay than you Greenvale folks do of a fiver -- not a bit more .
We do things on a big scale out there . ''
`` But , Ben , are you sure you can afford it -- that you won't miss it ? ''
`` Pop sure .
don't you worry , I 'm all right . ''
`` Bless you -- bless you ! ''
The tears were running down old Stephen 's face as he gathered up the money with a shaking hand .
`` I always knew you would do well , Ben -- always said it .
I knew you 'd a good heart .
I just can't realize this yet -- it seems too good to be true .
The old place saved -- I can die in peace .
Of course , I'll pay you back some of it anyhow if I 'm spared a while longer .
Bless you , Ben . ''
Ben would not stay long after that .
He said he had to leave on the 4:30 train .
He was relieved when he got away from the old man 's thanks and questions .
Ben did not find it easy to answer some of the latter .
When he was out of sight of the house he sat on a fence and counted up his remaining funds .
`` Just enough to take me back to the Kootenay -- and then begin over again , I s ` pose .
But 't was worth the money to see the old fellow 's face .
He 'd thank the Lord and me , he said .
How Jake and Wade 'd roar to hear them two names in partnership !
But I 'm going to pull up a bit after this , see if I don't , just to justify the old man 's faith in me .
` Twould be too bad to disappoint him if he 's believed for so long that I was going to turn out all right yet . ''
When the 4:30 train went out Ben Butler stood on the rear platform .
Gabe Foley watched him abstractedly as he receded .
`` Blamed if I know who that fellow was , '' he remarked to a crony .
`` He never told his name , but seems to me I've seen him before .
He has a kind of hang-dog look , I think .
But he paid up square and it is none of my business . ''
