`` Jump in , Ned ; I can give you a lift if you 're going my way . ''
Mr. Rogers reined up his prancing grey horse , and Ned Allen sprang lightly into the comfortable cutter .
The next minute they were flying down the long , glistening road , rosy-white in the sunset splendour .
The first snow of the season had come , and the sleighing was , as Ned said , `` dandy . ''
`` Going over to Windsor , I suppose , '' said Mr. Rogers , with a glance at the skates that were hanging over Ned 's shoulder .
`` Yes , sir ; all the Carleton boys are going over tonight .
The moon is out , and the ice is good .
We have to go in a body , or the Windsor fellows won't leave us alone .
There 's safety in numbers . ''
`` Pretty hard lines when boys have to go six miles for a skate , '' commented Mr. Rogers .
`` Well , it 's that or nothing , '' laughed Ned .
`` There isn't a saucerful of ice any nearer , except that small pond in Old Dutcher 's field , behind his barn .
And you know Old Dutcher won't allow a boy to set foot there .
He says they would knock down his fences climbing over them , and like as not set fire to his barn . ''
`` Old Dutcher was always a crank , '' said Mr. Rogers , `` and doubtless will be to the end .
By the way , I heard a rumour to the effect that you are soon going to take a course at the business college in Trenton .
I hope it 's true . ''
Ned 's frank face clouded over .
`` I 'm afraid not , sir .
The truth is , I guess Mother can't afford it .
Of course , Aunt Ella has very kindly offered to board me free for the term , but fees , books , and so on would require at least fifty dollars .
I don't expect to go . ''
`` That 's a pity .
can't you earn the necessary money yourself ? ''
Ned shook his head .
`` Not much chance for that in Carleton , Mr. Rogers .
I've cudgelled my brains for the past month trying to think of some way , but in vain .
Well , here is the crossroad , so I must get off .
Thank you for the drive , sir . ''
`` Keep on thinking , Ned , '' advised Mr. Rogers , as the lad jumped out .
`` Perhaps you'll hit on some plan yet to earn that money , and if you do -- well , it will prove that you have good stuff in you . ''
`` I think it would , '' laughed Ned to himself , as he trudged away .
`` A quiet little farming village in winter isn't exactly a promising field for financial operations . ''
At Winterby Corners Ned found a crowd of boys waiting for him , and soon paired off with his chum , Jim Slocum .
Jim , as usual , was grumbling because they had to go all the way to Windsor to skate .
`` Like as not we'll get into a free fight with the Windsorites when we get there , and be chevied off the ice , '' he complained .
The rivalry which existed between the Carleton and the Windsor boys was bitter and of long standing .
`` We ought to be able to hold our own tonight , '' said Ned .
`` There 'll be thirty of us there . ''
`` If we could only get Old Dutcher to let us skate on his pond ! ''
said Jim .
`` It wouldn't hurt his old pond !
And the ice is always splendid on it .
I 'd give a lot if we could only go there . ''
Ned was silent .
A sudden idea had come to him .
He wondered if it were feasible .
`` Anyhow , I'll try it , '' he said to himself .
`` I'll interview Old Dutcher tomorrow . ''
The skating that night was not particularly successful .
The small pond at Windsor was crowded , the Windsor boys being out in force and , although no positive disturbance arose , they contrived to make matters unpleasant for the Carletonites , who tramped moodily homeward in no very good humour , most of them declaring that , skating or no skating , they would not go to Windsor again .
The next day Ned Allen went down to see Mr. Dutcher , or Old Dutcher , as he was universally called in Carleton .
Ned did not exactly look forward to the interview with pleasure .
Old Dutcher was a crank -- there was no getting around that fact .
He had `` good days '' occasionally when , for him , he was fairly affable , but they were few and far between , and Ned had no reason to hope that this would be one .
Old Dutcher was unmarried , and his widowed sister kept house for him .
This poor lady had a decidedly lonely life of it , for Old Dutcher studiously discouraged visitors .
His passion for solitude was surpassed only by his eagerness to make and save money .
Although he was well-to-do , he would wrangle over a cent , and was the terror of all who had ever had dealings with him .
Fortunately for Ned and his project , this did turn out to be one of Old Dutcher 's good days .
He had just concluded an advantageous bargain with a Windsor cattle-dealer , and hence he received Ned with what , for Old Dutcher , might be called absolute cordiality .
Besides , although Old Dutcher disliked all boys on principle , he disliked Ned less than the rest because the boy had always treated him respectfully and had never played any tricks on him on Hallowe'en or April Fool 's Day .
`` I've come down to see you on a little matter of business , Mr. Dutcher , '' said Ned , boldly and promptly .
It never did to beat about the bush with Old Dutcher ; you had to come straight to the point .
`` I want to know if you will rent your pond behind the barn to me for a skating-rink . ''
Old Dutcher 's aspect was certainly not encouraging .
`` No , I won't .
You ought to know that .
I never allow anyone to skate there .
I ain't going to have a parcel of whooping , yelling youngsters tearing over my fences , disturbing my sleep at nights , and like as not setting fire to my barns .
No , sir !
I ain't going to rent that pond for no skating-rink . ''
Ned smothered a smile .
`` Just wait a moment , Mr. Dutcher , '' he said respectfully .
`` I want you to hear my proposition before you refuse definitely .
First , I'll give you ten dollars for the rent of the pond ; then I'll see that there will be no running over your fields and climbing your fences , no lighting of fire or matches about it , and no ` whooping and yelling ' at nights .
My rink will be open only from two to six in the afternoon and from seven to ten in the evening .
During that time I shall always be at the pond to keep everything in order .
The skaters will come and go by the lane leading from the barn to the road .
I think that if you agree to my proposition , Mr. Dutcher , you will not regret it . ''
`` What 's to prevent my running such a rink myself ? ''
asked Old Dutcher gruffly .
`` It wouldn't pay you , Mr. Dutcher , '' answered Ned promptly .
`` The Carleton boys wouldn't patronize a rink run by you . ''
Old Dutcher 's eyes twinkled .
It did not displease him to know that the Carleton boys hated him .
In fact , it seemed as if he rather liked it .
`` Besides , '' went on Ned , `` you couldn't afford the time .
You couldn't be on the pond for eight hours a day and until ten o'clock at night .
I can , as I've nothing else to do just now .
If I had , I wouldn't have to be trying to make money by a skating-rink . ''
Old Dutcher scowled .
Ten dollars was ten dollars and , as Ned had said , he knew very well that he could not run a rink by himself .
`` Well , '' he said , half reluctantly , `` I suppose I'll let you go ahead .
Only remember I'll hold you responsible if anything happens . ''
Ned went home in high spirits .
By the next day he had placards out in conspicuous places -- on the schoolhouse , at the forge , at Mr. Rogers 's store , and at Winterby Corners -- announcing that he had rented Mr. Dutcher 's pond for a skating-rink , and that tickets for the same at twenty-five cents a week for each skater could be had upon application to him .
Ned was not long left in doubt as to the success of his enterprise .
It was popular from the start .
There were about fifty boys in Carleton and Winterby , and they all patronized the rink freely .
At first Ned had some trouble with two or three rowdies , who tried to evade his rules .
He was backed up , however , by Old Dutcher 's reputation and by the public opinion of the other boys , as well as by his own undoubted muscle , and soon had everything going smoothly .
The rink flourished amain , and everybody , even Old Dutcher , was highly pleased .
At the end of the season Ned paid Old Dutcher his ten dollars , and had plenty left to pay for books and tuition at the business college in Trenton .
On the eve of his departure Mr. Rogers , who had kept a keen eye on Ned 's enterprise , again picked him up on the road .
`` So you found a way after all , Ned , '' he said genially .
`` I had an idea you would .
My bookkeeper will be leaving me about the time you will be through at the college .
I will be wanting in his place a young man with a good nose for business , and I rather think that you will be that young man .
What do you say ? ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' stammered Ned , scarcely believing his ears .
A position in Mr. Rogers 's store meant good salary and promotion .
He had never dared to hope for such good fortune .
`` If you -- think I can give satisfaction -- '' `` You manipulated Old Dutcher , and you've earned enough in a very slow-going place to put you through your business-college term , so I am sure you are the man I 'm looking for .
I believe in helping those who have ` gumption ' enough to help themselves , so we'll call it a bargain , Ned . ''
