In a small hut , right in the middle of the forest , lived a man , his wife , three sons and a daughter .
For some reason , all the animals seemed to have left that part of the country , and food grew very scarce ; so , one morning , after a night of snow , when the tracks of beasts might be easily seen , the three boys started off to hunt .
They kept together for some time , till they reached a place where the path they had been following split into two , and one of the brothers called his dog and went to the left , while the others took the trail to the right .
These had not gone far when their dogs scented a bear , and drove him out from the thicket .
The bear ran across a clearing , and the elder brother managed to place an arrow right in his head .
They both took up the bear , and carried it towards home , meeting the third at the spot where they had parted from him .
When they reached home they threw the bear down on the floor of the hut saying , ` Father , here is a bear which we killed ; now we can have some dinner . '
But the father , who was in a bad temper , only said : ` When I was a young man we used to get two bears in one day . '
The sons were rather disappointed at hearing this , and though there was plenty of meat to last for two or three days , they started off early in the morning down the same trail that they had followed before .
As they drew near the fork a bear suddenly ran out from behind a tree , and took the path on the right .
The two elder boys and their dogs pursued him , and soon the second son , who was also a good shot , killed him instantly with an arrow .
At the fork of the trail , on their way home , they met the youngest , who had taken the left-hand road , and had shot a bear for himself .
But when they threw the two bears triumphantly on the floor of the hut their father hardly looked at them , and only said : ` When I was a young man I used to get three bears in one day . '
The next day they were luckier than before , and brought back three bears , on which their father told them that HE had always killed four .
However , that did not prevent him from skinning the bears and cooking them in a way of his own , which he thought very good , and they all ate an excellent supper .
Now these bears were the servants of the great bear chief who lived in a high mountain a long way off .
And every time a bear was killed his shadow returned to the house of the bear chief , with the marks of his wounds plainly to bee seen by the rest .
The chief was furious at the number of bears the hunters had killed , and determined that he would find some way of destroying them .
So he called another of his servants , and said to him : ` Go to the thicket near the fork , where the boys killed your brothers , and directly they or the dogs see you return here as fast as ever you can .
The mountain will open to let you in , and the hunters will follow you .
Then I shall have them in my power , and be able to revenge myself . '
The servant bowed low , and started at once for the fork , where he hid himself in the bushes .
By-and-by the boys came in sight , but this time there were only two of them , as the youngest had stayed at home .
The air was warm and damp , and the snow soft and slushy , and the elder brother's bowstring hung loose , while the bow of the younger caught in a tree and snapped in half .
At that moment the dogs began to bark loudly , and the bear rushed out of the thicket and set off in the direction of the mountain .
Without thinking that they had nothing to defend themselves with , should the bear turn and attack them , the boys gave chase .
The bear , who knew quite well that he could not be shot , sometimes slackened his pace and let the dogs get quite close ; and in this way the elder son reached the mountain without observing it , while his brother , who had hurt his foot , was still far behind .
As he ran up , the mountain opened to admit the bear , and the boy , who was close on his heels , rushed in after him , and did not know where he was till he saw bears sitting on every side of him , holding a council .
The animal he had been chasing sank panting in their midst , and the boy , very much frightened , stood still , letting his bow fall to the ground .
` Why are you trying to kill all my servants ? '
asked the chief .
` Look round and see their shades , with arrows sticking in them .
It was I who told the bear to-day how he was to lure you into my power .
I shall take care that you shall not hurt my people any more , because you will become a bear yourself . '
At this moment the second brother came up -- for the mountain had been left open on purpose to tempt him also -- and cried out breathlessly : ` Don't you see that the bear is lying close to you ?
Why don't you shoot him ? '
And , without waiting for a reply , pressed forward to drive his arrow into the heart of the bear .
But the elder one caught his raised arm , and whispered : ` Be quiet !
can't you tell where you are ? '
Then the boy looked up and saw the angry bears about him .
On the one side were the servants of the chief , and on the other the servants of the chief's sister , who was sorry for the two youths , and begged that their lives might be spared .
The chief answered that he would not kill them , but only cast a spell over them , by which their heads and bodies should remain as they were , but their arms and legs should change into those of a bear , so that they would go on all fours for the rest of their lives .
And , stooping over a spring of water , he dipped a handful of moss in it and rubbed it over the arms and legs of the boys .
In an instant the transformation took place , and two creatures , neither beast nor human stood before the chief .
Now the bear chief of course knew that the boys ' father would seek for his sons when they did not return home , so he sent another of his servants to the hiding-place at the fork of the trail to see what would happen .
He had not waited long , when the father came in sight , stooping as he went to look for his sons ' tracks in the snow .
When he saw the marks of snow-shoes along the path on the right he was filled with joy , not knowing that the servant had made some fresh tracks on purpose to mislead him ; and he hastened forward so fast that he fell headlong into a pit , where the bear was sitting .
Before he could pick himself up the bear had quietly broken his neck , and , hiding the body under the snow , sat down to see if anyone else would pass that way .
Meanwhile the mother at home was wondering what had become of her two sons , and as the hours went on , and their father never returned , she made up her mind to go and look for him .
The youngest boy begged her to let him undertake the search , but she would not hear of it , and told him he must stay at home and take care of his sister .
So , slipping on her snow-shoes , she started on her way .
As no fresh snow had fallen , the trail was quite easy to find , and she walked straight on , till it led her up to the pit where the bear was waiting for her .
He grasped her as she fell and broke her neck , after which he laid her in the snow beside her husband , and went back to tell the bear chief .
Hour after hour dragged heavily by in the forest hut , and at last the brother and sister felt quite sure that in some way or other all the rest of the family had perished .
Day after day the boy climbed to the top of a tall tree near the house , and sat there till he was almost frozen , looking on all sides through the forest openings , hoping that he might see someone coming along .
Very soon all the food in the house was eaten , and he knew he would have to go out and hunt for more .
Besides , he wished to seek for his parents .
The little girl did not like being left alone in the hut , and cried bitterly ; but her brother told her that there was no use sitting down quietly to starve , and that whether he found any game or not he would certainly be back before the following night .
Then he cut himself some arrows , each from a different tree , and winged with the feathers of four different birds .
He then made himself a bow , very light and strong , and got down his snow-shoes .
All this took some time , and he could not start that day , but early next morning he called his little dog Redmouth , whom he kept in a box , and set out .
After he had followed the trail for a great distance he grew very tired , and sat upon the branch of a tree to rest .
But Redmouth barked so furiously that the boy thought that perhaps his parents might have been killed under its branches , and stepping back , shot one of his arrows at the root of the tree .
Whereupon a noise like thunder shook it from top to bottom , fire broke out , and in a few minutes a little heap of ashes lay in the place where it had stood .
Not knowing quite what to make of it all , the boy continued on the trail , and went down the right-hand fork till he came to the clump of bushes where the bears used to hide .
Now , as was plain by his being able to change the shape of the two brothers , the bear chief knew a good deal of magic , and he was quite aware that the little boy was following the trail , and he sent a very small but clever bear servant to wait for him in the bushes and to try to tempt him into the mountain .
But somehow his spells could not have worked properly that day , as the bear chief did not know that Redmouth had gone with his master , or he would have been more careful .
For the moment the dog ran round the bushes barking loudly , the little bear servant rushed out in a fright , and set out for the mountains as fast as he could .
The dog followed the bear , and the boy followed the dog , until the mountain , the house of the great bear chief , came in sight .
But along the road the snow was so wet and heavy that the boy could hardly get along , and then the thong of his snow-shoes broke , and he had to stop and mend it , so that the bear and the dog got so far ahead that he could scarcely hear the barking .
When the strap was firm again the boy spoke to his snow-shoes and said : ` Now you must go as fast as you can , or , if not , I shall lose the dog as well as the bear . '
And the snow-shoes sang in answer that they would run like the wind .
As he came along , the bear chief's sister was looking out of the window , and took pity on this little brother , as she had on the two elder ones , and waited to see what the boy would do , when he found that the bear servant and the dog had already entered the mountain .
The little brother was certainly very much puzzled at not seeing anything of either of the animals , which had vanished suddenly out of his sight .
He paused for an instant to think what he should do next , and while he did so he fancied he heard Redmouth's voice on the opposite side of the mountain .
With great difficulty he scrambled over steep rocks , and forced a path through tangled thickets ; but when he reached the other side the sound appeared to start from the place from which he had come .
Then he had to go all the way back again , and at the very top , where he stopped to rest , the barking was directly beneath him , and he knew in an instant where he was and what had happened .
` Let my dog out at once , bear chief ! '
cried he .
` If you do not , I shall destroy your palace . '
But the bear chief only laughed , and said nothing .
The boy was very angry at his silence , and aiming one of his arrows at the bottom of the mountain , shot straight through it .
As the arrow touched the ground a rumbling was heard , and with a roar a fire broke out which seemed to split the whole mountain into pieces .
The bear chief and all his servants were burnt up in the flames , but his sister and all that belonged to her were spared because she had tried to save the two elder boys from punishment .
As soon as the fire had burnt itself out the little hunter entered what was left of the mountain , and the first thing he saw was his two brothers -- half bear , half boy .
` Oh , help us !
help us ! '
cried they , standing on their hind legs as they spoke , and stretching out their fore-paws to him .
` But how am I to help you ? '
asked the little brother , almost weeping . '
I can kill people , and destroy trees and mountains , but I have no power over men . '
And the two elder brothers came up and put their paws on his shoulders , and they all three wept together .
The heart of the bear chief's sister was moved when she saw their misery , and she came gently up behind , and whispered : ` Little boy , gather some moss from the spring over there , and let your brothers smell it . '
With a bound all three were at the spring , and as the youngest plucked a handful of wet moss , the two others sniffed at it with all their might .
Then the bearskin fell away from them , and they stood upright once more .
` How can we thank you ?
how can we thank you ? '
they stammered , hardly able to speak ; and fell at her feet in gratitude .
But the bear's sister only smiled , and bade them go home and look after the little girl , who had no one else to protect her .
And this the boys did , and took such good care of their sister that , as she was very small , she soon forgot that she had ever had a father and mother .
