Mrs. Major Hill was in her element .
This did not often happen , for in the remote prairie town of the Canadian Northwest , where her husband was stationed , there were few opportunities for match-making .
And Mrs. Hill was -- or believed herself to be -- a born matchmaker .
Major Hill was in command of the detachment of Northwest Mounted Police at Dufferin Bluff .
Mrs. Hill was wont to declare that it was the most forsaken place to be found in Canada or out of it ; but she did her very best to brighten it up , and it is only fair to say that the N.W.M.P. , officers and men , seconded her efforts .
When Violet Thayer came west to pay a long-promised visit to her old schoolfellow , Mrs. Hill's cup of happiness bubbled over .
In her secret soul she vowed that Violet should never go back east unless it were post-haste to prepare a wedding trousseau .
There were at least half a dozen eligibles among the M.P.s , and Mrs. Hill , after some reflection , settled on Ned Madison as the flower of the flock .
`` He and Violet are simply made for each other , '' she told Major Hill the evening before Miss Thayer's arrival .
`` He has enough money and he is handsome and fascinating .
And Violet is a beauty and a clever woman into the bargain .
They can't help falling in love , I 'm sure ; it's fate ! ''
`` Perhaps Miss Thayer may be booked elsewhere already , '' suggested Major Hill .
He had seen more than one of his wife's card castles fall into heartbreaking ruin .
`` Oh , no ; Violet would have told me if that were the case .
It's really quite time for her to think of settling down .
She is twenty-five , you know .
The men all go crazy over her , but she's dreadfully hard to please .
However , she can't help liking Ned .
He hasn't a single fault .
I firmly believe it is foreordained . ''
And in this belief Mrs. Hill rested securely , but nevertheless did not fail to concoct several feminine artifices for the helping on of foreordination .
It was a working belief with her that it was always well to have the gods in your debt .
Violet Thayer came , saw , and conquered .
Within thirty-six hours of her arrival at Dufferin Bluff she had every one of the half-dozen eligibles at her feet , not to mention a score or more ineligibles .
She would have been surprised indeed had it been otherwise .
Miss Thayer knew her power , and was somewhat unduly fond of exercising it .
But she was a very nice girl into the bargain , and so thought one and all of the young men who frequented Mrs. Hill's drawing-room and counted it richly worth while merely to look at Miss Thayer after having seen nothing for weeks except flabby half-breed girls and blue-haired squaws .
Madison was foremost in the field , of course .
Madison was really a nice fellow , and quite deserved all Mrs. Hill's encomiums .
He was good-looking and well groomed -- could sing and dance divinely and play the violin to perfection .
The other M.P.s were all jealous of him , and more so than ever when Violet Thayer came .
They did not consider that any one of them had the ghost of a chance if Madison entered the lists against them .
Violet liked Madison , and was very chummy with him after her own fashion .
She thought all the M.P.s were nice boys , and they amused her , for which she was grateful .
She had expected Dufferin Bluff to be very dull , and doubtless it would pall after a time , but for a change it was delightful .
The sixth evening after her arrival found Mrs. Hill's room crowded , as usual , with M.P.s. Violet was looking her best in a distracting new gown -- Sergeant Fox afterwards described it to a brother officer as a `` stunning sort of rig between a cream and a blue and a brown '' ; she flirted impartially with all the members of her circle at first , but gradually narrowed down to Ned Madison , much to the delight of Mrs. Hill , who was hovering around like a small , brilliant butterfly .
Violet was talking to Madison and watching John Spencer out of the tail of her eye .
Spencer was not an M.P. .
He had some government post at Dufferin Bluff , and this was his first call at Lone Poplar Villa since Miss Thayer's arrival .
He did not seem to be dazzled by her at all , and after his introduction had promptly retired to a corner with Major Hill , where they talked the whole evening about the trouble on the Indian reservation at Loon Lake .
Possibly this indifference piqued Miss Thayer .
Possibly she considered it refreshing after the servile adulation of the M.P.s. .
At any rate , when all the latter were gathered about the piano singing a chorus with gusto , she shook Madison off and went over to the corner where Spencer , deserted by the Major , whose bass was wanted , was sitting in solitary state .
He looked up indifferently as Violet shimmered down on the divan beside him .
Sergeant Robinson , who was watching them jealously from the corner beyond the palms , and would have given his eyes , or at least one of them , for such a favour , mentally vowed that Spencer was the dullest fellow he had ever put those useful members on .
`` Don't you sing , Mr. Spencer ? ''
asked Violet by way of beginning a conversation , as she turned her splendid eyes full upon him .
Robinson would have lost his head under them , but Spencer kept his heroically .
`` No , '' was his calmly brief reply , given without any bluntness , but with no evident intention of saying anything more .
In spite of her social experience Violet felt disconcerted .
`` If he doesn't want to talk to me I won't try to make him , '' she thought crossly .
No man had ever snubbed her so before .
Spencer listened immovably to the music for a time .
Then he turned to his companion with a palpable effort to be civilly sociable .
`` How do you like the west , Miss Thayer ? ''
he said .
Violet smiled -- the smile most men found dangerous .
`` Very much , so far as I have seen it .
There is a flavour about the life here that I like , but I dare say it would soon pall .
It must be horribly lonesome here most of the time , especially in winter . ''
`` The M.P.s are always growling that it is , '' returned Spencer with a slight smile .
`` For my own part I never find it so . ''
Violet decided that his smile was very becoming to him and that she liked the way his dark hair grew over his forehead .
`` I don't think I've seen you at Lone Poplar Villa before ? ''
she said .
`` No .
I haven't been here for some time .
I came up tonight to see the Major about the Loon Lake trouble . ''
`` Otherwise you wouldn't have come , '' thought Violet .
`` Flattering -- very ! ''
Aloud she said , `` Is it serious ? ''
`` Oh , no .
A mere squabble among the Indians .
Have you ever visited the Reservation , Miss Thayer ?
No ?
Well , you should get some of your M.P. friends to take you out .
It would be worth while . ''
`` Why don't you ask me to go yourself ? ''
said Violet audaciously .
Spencer smiled again .
`` Have I failed in politeness by not doing so ?
I fear you would find me an insufferably dull companion . ''
So he was not going to ask her after all .
Violet felt piqued .
She was also conscious of a sensation very near akin to disappointment .
She looked across at Madison .
How trim and dapper he was !
`` I hate a bandbox man , '' she said to herself .
Spencer meanwhile had picked up one of Mrs. Hill's novels from the stand beside him . ''
Fools of Habit , '' he said , glancing at the cover .
`` I see it is making quite a sensation down east .
I suppose you've read it ? ''
`` Yes .
It is very frivolous and clever -- all froth but delightful froth .
Did you like it ? ''
Spencer balanced the novel reflectively on his slender brown hand .
`` Well , yes , rather .
But I don't care for novels as a rule .
I don't understand them .
The hero of this book , now -- do you believe that a man in love would act as he did ? ''
`` I don't know , '' said Violet amusedly .
`` You ought to be a better judge than I .
You are a man . ''
`` I have never loved anybody , so I am in no position to decide , '' said Spencer .
There was as little self-consciousness in his voice as if he were telling her a fact concerning the Loon Lake trouble .
Violet rose to the occasion .
`` You have an interesting experience to look forward to , '' she said .
Spencer turned his deep-set grey eyes squarely upon her .
`` I don't know that .
When I said I had never loved , I meant more than the love of a man for some particular woman .
I meant love in every sense .
I do not know what it is to have an affection for any human being .
My parents died before I can remember .
My only living relative was a penurious old uncle who brought me up for shame's sake and kicked me out on the world as soon as he could .
I don't make friends easily .
I have a few acquaintances whom I like , but there is not a soul on earth for whom I care , or who cares for me . ''
`` What a revelation love will be to you when it comes , '' said Violet softly .
Again he looked into her eyes .
`` Do you think it will come ? ''
he asked .
Before she could reply Mrs. Hill pounced upon them .
Violet was wanted to sing .
Mr. Spencer would excuse her , wouldn't he ?
Mr. Spencer did so obligingly .
Moreover , he got up and bade his hostess good night .
Violet gave him her hand .
`` You will call again ? ''
she said .
Spencer looked across at Madison -- perhaps it was accidental .
`` I think not , '' he said .
`` If , as you say , love will come some time , it would be a very unpleasant revelation if it came in hopeless guise , and one never knows what may happen . ''
Miss Thayer was conscious of a distinct fluttering of her heart as she went across to the piano .
This was a new sensation for her , and worthy of being analyzed .
After the M.P.s had gone she asked Mrs. Hill who Mr. Spencer was .
`` Oh , John Spencer , '' said Mrs. Hill carelessly .
`` He's at the head of the Land Office here .
That's really all I know about him .
Jack says he is a downright good fellow and all that , you know .
But he's no earthly good in a social way ; he can't talk or he won't .
He's flat .
So different from Mr. Madison , isn't he ? ''
`` Very , '' said Violet emphatically .
After Mrs. Hill had gone out Violet walked to the nearest mirror and looked at herself with her forefinger in the dimple of her chin .
`` It is very odd , '' she said .
She did not mean the dimple .
* * * * * Spencer had told her he was not coming back .
She did not believe this , but she did not expect him for a few days .
Consequently , when he appeared the very next evening she was surprised .
Madison , to whom she was talking when Spencer entered , does not know to this day what she had started to say to him , for she never finished her sentence .
`` I wonder if it is the Loon Lake affair again ? ''
she thought nervously .
Mrs. Hill came up at this point and whisked Madison off for a waltz .
Spencer , seeing his chance , came straight across the room to her .
Sergeant Robinson , who was watching them as usual , is willing to make affidavit that Miss Thayer changed colour .
After his greeting Spencer said nothing .
He sat beside her , and they watched Mrs. Hill and Madison dancing .
Violet wondered why she did not feel bored .
When she saw Madison coming back to her she was conscious of an unreasonable anger with him .
She got up abruptly .
`` Let us go out on the verandah , '' she said imperiously .
`` It is absolutely stifling in here . ''
They went out .
It was very cool and dusky .
The lights of the town twinkled out below them , and the prairie bluffs behind them were dark and sibilant .
`` I am going to drive over to Loon Lake tomorrow afternoon to look into affairs there , '' said Spencer .
`` Will you go with me ? ''
Violet reflected a moment .
`` You didn't ask me as if you really wanted me to go , '' she said .
Spencer put his hand over the white fingers that rested on the railing .
He bent forward until his breath stirred the tendrils of hair on her forehead .
`` Yes , I do , '' he said distinctly .
`` I want you to go with me to Loon Lake tomorrow more than I ever wanted any thing in my life before . ''
Later on , when everybody had gone , Violet had her bad quarter of an hour with Mrs. Hill .
That lady felt herself aggrieved .
`` I think you treated poor Ned very badly tonight , Vi .
He felt really blue over it .
And it was awfully bad form to go out with Spencer as you did and stay there so long .
And you oughtn't to flirt with him -- he doesn't understand the game . ''
`` I 'm not going to flirt with him , '' said Miss Thayer calmly .
`` Oh , I suppose it's just your way .
Only don't turn the poor fellow's head .
By the way , Ned is coming up with his camera tomorrow afternoon to take us all . ''
`` I 'm afraid he won't find me at home , '' said Violet sweetly .
`` I am going out to Loon Lake with Mr. Spencer . ''
Mrs. Hill flounced off to bed in a pet .
She was disgusted with everything , she declared to the Major .
Things had been going so nicely , and now they were all muddled .
`` Isn't Madison coming up to time ? ''
queried the Major sleepily .
`` Madison !
It's Violet .
She is behaving abominably .
She treated poor Ned shamefully tonight .
You saw yourself how she acted with Spencer , and she's going to Loon Lake with him tomorrow , she says .
I 'm sure I don't know what she can see in him .
He's the dullest , pokiest fellow alive -- so different from her in every way . ''
`` Perhaps that is why she likes him , '' suggested the Major .
`` The attraction of opposites and all that , you know . ''
But Mrs. Hill crossly told him he didn't know anything about it , so , being a wise man , he held his tongue .
* * * * * During the next two weeks Mrs. Hill was the most dissatisfied woman in the four districts , and every M.P. down to the rawest recruit anathemized Spencer in secret a dozen times a day .
Violet simply dropped everyone else , including Madison , in the coolest , most unmistakable way .
One night Spencer did not come to Lone Poplar Villa .
Violet looked for him to the last .
When she realized that he was not coming she went to the verandah to have it out with herself .
As she sat huddled up in a dim corner beneath a silkily rustling western maple two M.P.s came out and , not seeing her , went on with their conversation .
`` Heard about Spencer ? ''
questioned one .
`` No .
What of him ? ''
`` Well , they say Miss Thayer's thrown him over .
Yesterday I was passing here about four in the afternoon and I saw Spencer coming in .
I went down to the Land Office and was chatting to Cribson when the door opened about half an hour later and Spencer burst in .
He was pale as the dead , and looked wild .
` Has Fyshe gone to Rainy River about those Crown Lands yet ? '
he jerked out .
Cribson said , ` No . '
Then tell him he needn't ; I 'm going myself , ' said Spencer and out he bolted .
He posted off to Rainy River today , and won't be back for a fortnight .
She'll be gone then . ''
`` Rather rough on Spencer after the way she encouraged him , '' returned the other as they passed out of earshot .
Violet got up .
All the callers were gone , and she swept in to Mrs. Hill dramatically .
`` Edith , '' she said in the cold , steady voice that , to those who knew her , meant breakers ahead for somebody , `` Mr. Spencer was here yesterday when I was riding with the Major , was he not ?
What did you tell him about me ? ''
Mrs. Hill looked at Violet's blazing eyes and wilted .
`` I -- didn't tell him anything -- much . ''
`` What was it ? ''
Mrs. Hill began to sob .
`` Don't look at me like that , Violet !
He just dropped in and we were talking about you -- at least I was -- and I had heard that Harry St. Maur was paying you marked attention before you came west -- and -- and that some people thought you were engaged -- and so -- and so -- '' `` You told Mr. Spencer that I was engaged to Harry St. Maur ? ''
`` No-o-o -- I just hinted .
I didn't mean an-any harm .
I never dreamed you 'd really c-care .
I thought you were just amusing yourself -- and so did everybody -- and I wanted Ned Madison -- '' Violet had turned very pale .
`` I love him , '' she said hoarsely , `` and you've sent him away .
He's gone to Rainy River .
I shall never see him again ! ''
`` Oh , yes , you will , '' gasped Mrs. Hill faintly .
`` He'll come back when he knows -- you c-can write and tell him -- '' `` Do you suppose I am going to write and ask him to come back ? ''
said Violet wildly .
`` I've enough pride left yet to keep me from doing that for a man at whose head I've thrown myself openly -- yes , openly , and who has never , in words at least , told me he cared anything about me .
I will never forgive you , Edith ! ''
Then Mrs. Hill found herself alone with her lacerated feelings .
After soothing them with a good cry , she set to work thinking seriously .
There was no doubt she had muddled things badly , but there was no use leaving them in a muddle when a word or two fitly spoken might set them straight .
Mrs. Hill sat down and wrote a very diplomatic letter before she went to bed , and the next morning she waylaid Sergeant Fox and asked him if he would ride down to Rainy River with a very important message for Mr. Spencer .
Sergeant Fox wondered what it could be , but it was not his to reason why ; it was his only to mount and ride with all due speed , for Mrs. Hill's whims and wishes were as stringent and binding as the rules of the force .
That evening when Mrs. Hill and Violet -- the latter very silent and regal -- were sitting on the verandah , a horseman came galloping up the Rainy River trail .
Mrs. Hill excused herself and went in .
Five minutes later John Spencer , covered with the alkali dust of his twenty miles ' ride , dismounted at Violet's side .
* * * * * The M.P.s gave a concert at the barracks that night and Mrs. Hill and her Major went to it , as well as everyone else of any importance in town except Violet and Spencer .
They sat on Major Hill's verandah and watched the moon rising over the bluffs and making milk-white reflections in the prairie lakes .
`` It seems a year of misery since last night , '' sighed Violet happily .
`` You couldn't have been quite as miserable as I was , '' said Spencer earnestly .
`` You were everything -- absolutely everything to me .
Other men have little rills and driblets of affection for sisters and cousins and aunts , but everything in me went out to you .
Do you remember you told me the first time we met that love would be a revelation to me ?
It has been more .
It has been a new gospel .
I hardly dared hope you could care for me .
Even yet I don't know why you do . ''
`` I love you , '' said Violet gravely , `` because you are you . ''
Than which , of course , there could be no better reason .
