`` I wonder who that pleasant-looking girl who drives cows down the beech lane every morning and evening is , '' said Pauline Palmer , at the tea table of the country farmhouse where she and her aunt were spending the summer .
Mrs. Wallace had wanted to go to some fashionable watering place , but her husband had bluntly told her he couldn't afford it .
Stay in the city when all her set were out she would not , and the aforesaid farmhouse had been the compromise .
`` I shouldn't suppose it could make any difference to you who she is , '' said Mrs. Wallace impatiently .
`` I do wish , Pauline , that you were more careful in your choice of associates .
You hobnob with everyone , even that old man who comes around buying eggs .
It is very bad form . ''
Pauline hid a rather undutiful smile behind her napkin .
Aunt Olivia's snobbish opinions always amused her .
`` You've no idea what an interesting old man he is , '' she said .
`` He can talk more entertainingly than any other man I know .
What is the use of being so exclusive , Aunt Olivia ?
You miss so much fun .
You wouldn't be so horribly bored as you are if you fraternized a little with the ` natives , ' as you call them . ''
`` No , thank you , '' said Mrs. Wallace disdainfully .
`` Well , I am going to try to get acquainted with that girl , '' said Pauline resolutely .
`` She looks nice and jolly . ''
`` I don't know where you get your low tastes from , '' groaned Mrs. Wallace .
`` I 'm sure it wasn't from your poor mother .
What do you suppose the Morgan Knowles would think if they saw you taking up with some tomboy girl on a farm ? ''
`` I don't see why it should make a great deal of difference what they would think , since they don't seem to be aware of my existence , or even of yours , Aunty , '' said Pauline , with twinkling eyes .
She knew it was her aunt's dearest desire to get in with the Morgan Knowles ' `` set '' -- a desire that seemed as far from being realized as ever .
Mrs. Wallace could never understand why the Morgan Knowles shut her from their charmed circle .
They certainly associated with people much poorer and of more doubtful worldly station than hers -- the Markhams , for instance , who lived on an unfashionable street and wore quite shabby clothes .
Just before she had left Colchester , Mrs. Wallace had seen Mrs. Knowles and Mrs. Markham together in the former's automobile .
James Wallace and Morgan Knowles were associated in business dealings ; but in spite of Mrs. Wallace's schemings and aspirations and heart burnings , the association remained a purely business one and never advanced an inch in the direction of friendship .
As for Pauline , she was hopelessly devoid of social ambitions and she did not in the least mind the Morgan Knowles ' remote attitude .
`` Besides , '' continued Pauline , `` she isn't a tomboy at all .
She looks like a very womanly , well-bred sort of girl .
Why should you think her a tomboy because she drives cows ?
Cows are placid , useful animals -- witness this delicious cream which I am pouring over my blueberries .
And they have to be driven .
It's an honest occupation . ''
`` I daresay she is someone's servant , '' said Mrs. Wallace contemptuously .
`` But I suppose even that wouldn't matter to you , Pauline ? ''
`` Not a mite , '' said Pauline cheerfully .
`` One of the very nicest girls I ever knew was a maid Mother had the last year of her dear life .
I loved that girl , Aunt Olivia , and I correspond with her .
She writes letters that are ten times more clever and entertaining than those stupid epistles Clarisse Gray sends me -- and Clarisse Gray is a rich man's daughter and is being educated in Paris . ''
`` You are incorrigible , Pauline , '' said Mrs. Wallace hopelessly .
`` Mrs. Boyd , '' said Pauline to their landlady , who now made her appearance , `` who is that girl who drives the cows along the beech lane mornings and evenings ? ''
`` Ada Cameron , I guess , '' was Mrs. Boyd's response .
`` She lives with the Embrees down on the old Embree place just below here .
They 're pasturing their cows on the upper farm this summer .
Mrs. Embree is her father's half-sister . ''
`` Is she as nice as she looks ? ''
`` Yes , Ada's a real nice sensible girl , '' said Mrs. Boyd .
`` There is no nonsense about her . ''
`` That doesn't sound very encouraging , '' murmured Pauline , as Mrs. Boyd went out .
`` I like people with a little nonsense about them .
But I hope better things of Ada , Mrs. Boyd to the contrary notwithstanding .
She has a pair of grey eyes that can't possibly always look sensible .
I think they must mellow occasionally into fun and jollity and wholesome nonsense .
Well , I 'm off to the shore .
I want to get that photograph of the Cove this evening , if possible .
I've set my heart on taking first prize at the Amateur Photographers ' Exhibition this fall , and if I can only get that Cove with all its beautiful lights and shadows , it will be the gem of my collection . ''
Pauline , on her return from the shore , reached the beech lane just as the Embree cows were swinging down it .
Behind them came a tall , brown-haired , brown-faced girl in a neat print dress .
Her hat was hung over her arm , and the low evening sunlight shone redly over her smooth glossy head .
She carried herself with a pretty dignity , but when her eyes met Pauline's , she looked as if she would smile on the slightest provocation .
Pauline promptly gave her the provocation .
`` Good evening , Miss Cameron , '' she called blithely .
`` Won't you please stop a few moments and look me over ?
I want to see if you think me a likely person for a summer chum . ''
Ada Cameron did more than smile .
She laughed outright and went over to the fence where Pauline was sitting on a stump .
She looked down into the merry black eyes of the town girl she had been half envying for a week and said humorously : `` Yes , I think you very likely , indeed .
But it takes two to make a friendship -- like a bargain .
If I 'm one , you'll have to be the other . ''
`` I 'm the other .
Shake , '' said Pauline , holding out her hand .
That was the beginning of a friendship that made poor Mrs. Wallace groan outwardly as well as inwardly .
Pauline and Ada found that they liked each other even more than they had expected to .
They walked , rowed , berried and picnicked together .
Ada did not go to Mrs. Boyd's a great deal , for some instinct told her that Mrs. Wallace did not look favourably on her , but Pauline spent half her time at the little , brown , orchard-embowered house at the end of the beech lane where the Embrees lived .
She had never met any girl she thought so nice as Ada .
`` She is nice every way , '' she told the unconvinced Aunt Olivia .
`` She's clever and well read .
She is sensible and frank .
She has a sense of humour and a great deal of insight into character -- witness her liking for your niece !
She can talk interestingly and she can also be silent when silence is becoming .
And she has the finest profile I ever saw .
Aunt Olivia , may I ask her to visit me next winter ? ''
`` No , indeed , '' said Mrs. Wallace , with crushing emphasis .
`` You surely don't expect to continue this absurd intimacy past the summer , Pauline ? ''
`` I expect to be Ada's friend all my life , '' said Pauline laughingly , but with a little ring of purpose in her voice .
`` Oh , Aunty , dear , can't you see that Ada is just the same girl in cotton print that she would be in silk attire ?
She is really far more distinguished looking than any girl in the Knowles ' set . ''
`` Pauline ! ''
said Aunt Olivia , looking as shocked as if Pauline had committed blasphemy .
Pauline laughed again , but she sighed as she went to her room .
Aunt Olivia has the kindest heart in the world , she thought .
What a pity she isn't able to see things as they really are !
My friendship with Ada can't be perfect if I can't invite her to my home .
And she is such a dear girl -- the first real friend after my own heart that I've ever had .
The summer waned , and August burned itself out .
`` I suppose you will be going back to town next week ?
I shall miss you dreadfully , '' said Ada .
The two girls were in the Embree garden , where Pauline was preparing to take a photograph of Ada standing among the asters , with a great sheaf of them in her arms .
Pauline wished she could have said : But you must come and visit me in the winter .
Since she could not , she had to content herself with saying : `` You won't miss me any more than I shall miss you .
But we'll correspond , and I hope Aunt Olivia will come to Marwood again next summer . ''
`` I don't think I shall be here then , '' said Ada with a sigh .
`` You see , it is time I was doing something for myself , Pauline .
Aunt Jane and Uncle Robert have always been very kind to me , but they have a large family and are not very well off .
So I think I'll try for a situation in one of the Remington stores this fall . ''
`` It's such a pity you couldn't have gone to the Academy and studied for a teacher's licence , '' said Pauline , who knew what Ada's ambitions were .
`` I should have liked that better , of course , '' said Ada quietly .
`` But it is not possible , so I must do my best at the next best thing .
Don't let's talk of it .
It might make me feel blueish and I want to look especially pleasant if I 'm going to have my photo taken . ''
`` You couldn't look anything else , '' laughed Pauline .
`` Don't smile too broadly -- I want you to be looking over the asters with a bit of a dream on your face and in your eyes .
If the picture turns out as beautiful as I fondly expect , I mean to put it in my exhibition collection under the title ' A September Dream . '
There , that's the very expression .
When you look like that , you remind me of somebody I have seen , but I can't remember who it is .
All ready now -- don't move -- there , dearie , it is all over . ''
When Pauline went back to Colchester , she was busy for a month preparing her photographs for the exhibition , while Aunt Olivia renewed her spinning of all the little social webs in which she fondly hoped to entangle the Morgan Knowles and other desirable flies .
When the exhibition was opened , Pauline Palmer's collection won first prize , and the prettiest picture in it was one called `` A September Dream '' -- a tall girl with a wistful face , standing in an old-fashioned garden with her arms full of asters .
The very day after the exhibition was opened the Morgan Knowles ' automobile stopped at the Wallace door .
Mrs. Wallace was out , but it was Pauline whom stately Mrs. Morgan Knowles asked for .
Pauline was at that moment buried in her darkroom developing photographs , and she ran down just as she was -- a fact which would have mortified Mrs. Wallace exceedingly if she had ever known it .
But Mrs. Morgan Knowles did not seem to mind at all .
She liked Pauline's simplicity of manner .
It was more than she had expected from the aunt's rather vulgar affectations .
`` I have called to ask you who the original of the photograph ' A September Dream ' in your exhibit was , Miss Palmer , '' she said graciously .
`` The resemblance to a very dear childhood friend of mine is so startling that I am sure it can not be accidental . ''
`` That is a photograph of Ada Cameron , a friend whom I met this summer up in Marwood , '' said Pauline .
`` Ada Cameron !
She must be Ada Frame's daughter , then , '' exclaimed Mrs. Knowles in excitement .
Then , seeing Pauline's puzzled face , she explained : `` Years ago , when I was a child , I always spent my summers on the farm of my uncle , John Frame .
My cousin , Ada Frame , was the dearest friend I ever had , but after we grew up we saw nothing of each other , for I went with my parents to Europe for several years , and Ada married a neighbour's son , Alec Cameron , and went out west .
Her father , who was my only living relative other than my parents , died , and I never heard anything more of Ada until about eight years ago , when somebody told me she was dead and had left no family .
That part of the report can not have been true if this girl is her daughter . ''
`` I believe she is , '' said Pauline quickly .
`` Ada was born out west and lived there until she was eight years old , when her parents died and she was sent east to her father's half-sister .
And Ada looks like you -- she always reminded me of somebody I had seen , but I never could decide who it was before .
Oh , I hope it is true , for Ada is such a sweet girl , Mrs. Knowles . ''
`` She couldn't be anything else if she is Ada Frame's daughter , '' said Mrs. Knowles .
`` My husband will investigate the matter at once , and if this girl is Ada's child we shall hope to find a daughter in her , as we have none of our own . ''
`` What will Aunt Olivia say ! ''
said Pauline with wickedly dancing eyes when Mrs. Knowles had gone .
Aunt Olivia was too much overcome to say anything .
That good lady felt rather foolish when it was proved that the girl she had so despised was Mrs. Morgan Knowles ' cousin and was going to be adopted by her .
But to hear Aunt Olivia talk now , you would suppose that she and not Pauline had discovered Ada .
The latter sought Pauline out as soon as she came to Colchester , and the summer friendship proved a life-long one and was , for the Wallaces , the open sesame to the enchanted ground of the Knowles ' `` set . ''
`` So everybody concerned is happy , '' said Pauline .
`` Ada is going to college and so am I , and Aunt Olivia is on the same committee as Mrs. Knowles for the big church bazaar .
What about my ` low tastes ' now , Aunt Olivia ? ''
`` Well , who would ever have supposed that a girl who drove cows to pasture was connected with the Morgan Knowles ? ''
said poor Aunt Olivia piteously .
