The honey-tinted autumn sunshine was falling thickly over the crimson and amber maples around old Abel Blair's door .
There was only one outer door in old Abel's house , and it almost always stood wide open .
A little black dog , with one ear missing and a lame forepaw , almost always slept on the worn red sandstone slab which served old Abel for a doorstep ; and on the still more worn sill above it a large gray cat almost always slept .
Just inside the door , on a bandy-legged chair of elder days , old Abel almost always sat .
He was sitting there this afternoon -- a little old man , sadly twisted with rheumatism ; his head was abnormally large , thatched with long , wiry black hair ; his face was heavily lined and swarthily sunburned ; his eyes were deep-set and black , with occasional peculiar golden flashes in them .
A strange looking man was old Abel Blair ; and as strange was he as he looked .
Lower Carmody people would have told you .
Old Abel was almost always sober in these , his later years .
He was sober to-day .
He liked to bask in that ripe sunlight as well as his dog and cat did ; and in such baskings he almost always looked out of his doorway at the far , fine blue sky over the tops of the crowding maples .
But to-day he was not looking at the sky , instead , he was staring at the black , dusty rafters of his kitchen , where hung dried meats and strings of onions and bunches of herbs and fishing tackle and guns and skins .
But old Abel saw not these things ; his face was the face of a man who beholds visions , compact of heavenly pleasure and hellish pain , for old Abel was seeing what he might have been -- and what he was ; as he always saw when Felix Moore played to him on the violin .
And the awful joy of dreaming that he was young again , with unspoiled life before him , was so great and compelling that it counterbalanced the agony in the realization of a dishonoured old age , following years in which he had squandered the wealth of his soul in ways where Wisdom lifted not her voice .
Felix Moore was standing opposite to him , before an untidy stove , where the noon fire had died down into pallid , scattered ashes .
Under his chin he held old Abel's brown , battered fiddle ; his eyes , too , were fixed on the ceiling ; and he , too , saw things not lawful to be uttered in any language save that of music ; and of all music , only that given forth by the anguished , enraptured spirit of the violin .
And yet this Felix was little more than twelve years old , and his face was still the face of a child who knows nothing of either sorrow or sin or failure or remorse .
Only in his large , gray-black eyes was there something not of the child -- something that spoke of an inheritance from many hearts , now ashes , which had aforetime grieved and joyed , and struggled and failed , and succeeded and grovelled .
The inarticulate cries of their longings had passed into this child's soul , and transmuted themselves into the expression of his music .
Felix was a beautiful child .
Carmody people , who stayed at home , thought so ; and old Abel Blair , who had roamed afar in many lands , thought so ; and even the Rev. Stephen Leonard , who taught , and tried to believe , that favour is deceitful and beauty is vain , thought so .
He was a slight lad , with sloping shoulders , a slim brown neck , and a head set on it with stag-like grace and uplift .
His hair , cut straight across his brow and falling over his ears , after some caprice of Janet Andrews , the minister's housekeeper , was a glossy blue-black .
The skin of his face and hands was like ivory ; his eyes were large and beautifully tinted -- gray , with dilating pupils ; his features had the outlines of a cameo .
Carmody mothers considered him delicate , and had long foretold that the minister would never bring him up ; but old Abel pulled his grizzled moustache when he heard such forebodings and smiled .
`` Felix Moore will live , '' he said positively .
`` You can't kill that kind until their work is done .
He's got a work to do -- if the minister'll let him do it .
And if the minister don't let him do it , then I wouldn't be in that minister's shoes when he comes to the judgment -- no , I 'd rather be in my own .
It's an awful thing to cross the purposes of the Almighty , either in your own life or anybody else's .
Sometimes I think it's what's meant by the unpardonable sin -- ay , that I do ! ''
Carmody people never asked what old Abel meant .
They had long ago given up such vain questioning .
When a man had lived as old Abel had lived for the greater part of his life , was it any wonder he said crazy things ?
And as for hinting that Mr. Leonard , a man who was really almost too good to live , was guilty of any sin , much less an unpardonable one -- well , there now !
what use was it to be taking any account of old Abel's queer speeches ?
Though , to be sure , there was no great harm in a fiddle , and maybe Mr. Leonard was a mite too strict that way with the child .
But then , could you wonder at it ?
There was his father , you see .
Felix finally lowered the violin , and came back to old Abel's kitchen with a long sigh .
Old Abel smiled drearily at him -- the smile of a man who has been in the hands of the tormentors .
`` It's awful the way you play -- it's awful , '' he said with a shudder .
`` I never heard anything like it -- and you that never had any teaching since you were nine years old , and not much practice , except what you could get here now and then on my old , battered fiddle .
And to think you make it up yourself as you go along !
I suppose your grandfather would never hear to your studying music -- would he now ? ''
Felix shook his head .
`` I know he wouldn't , Abel .
He wants me to be a minister .
Ministers are good things to be , but I 'm afraid I can't be a minister . ''
`` Not a pulpit minister .
There's different kinds of ministers , and each must talk to men in his own tongue if he's going to do 'em any real good , '' said old Abel meditatively .
`` YOUR tongue is music .
Strange that your grandfather can't see that for himself , and him such a broad-minded man !
He's the only minister I ever had much use for .
He's God's own if ever a man was .
And he loves you -- yes , sir , he loves you like the apple of his eye . ''
`` And I love him , '' said Felix warmly .
`` I love him so much that I'll even try to be a minister for his sake , though I don't want to be . ''
`` What do you want to be ? ''
`` A great violinist , '' answered the child , his ivory-hued face suddenly warming into living rose .
`` I want to play to thousands -- and see their eyes look as yours do when I play .
Sometimes your eyes frighten me , but oh , it's a splendid fright !
If I had father's violin I could do better .
I remember that he once said it had a soul that was doing purgatory for its sins when it had lived on earth .
I don't know what he meant , but it did seem to me that HIS violin was alive .
He taught me to play on it as soon as I was big enough to hold it . ''
`` Did you love your father ? ''
asked old Abel , with a keen look .
Again Felix crimsoned ; but he looked straightly and steadily into his old friend's face .
`` No , '' he said , `` I didn't ; but , '' he added , gravely and deliberately , `` I don't think you should have asked me such a question . ''
It was old Abel's turn to blush .
Carmody people would not have believed he could blush ; and perhaps no living being could have called that deepening hue into his weather-beaten cheek save only this gray-eyed child of the rebuking face .
`` No , I guess I shouldn't , '' he said .
`` But I 'm always making mistakes .
I've never made anything else .
That's why I 'm nothing more than ` Old Abel ' to the Carmody people .
Nobody but you and your grandfather ever calls me ` Mr. Blair . '
Yet William Blair at the store up there , rich and respected as he is , wasn't half as clever a man as I was when we started in life : you mayn't believe that , but it's true .
And the worst of it is , young Felix , that most of the time I don't care whether I 'm Mr. Blair of old Abel .
Only when you play I care .
It makes me feel just as a look I saw in a little girl's eyes some years ago made me feel .
Her name was Anne Shirley and she lived with the Cuthberts down at Avonlea .
We got into a conversation at Blair's store .
She could talk a blue streak to anyone , that girl could .
I happened to say about something that it didn't matter to a battered old hulk of sixty odd like me .
She looked at me with her big , innocent eyes , a little reproachful like , as if I 'd said something awful heretical .
` Don't you think , Mr. Blair , ' she says , ` that the older we get the more things ought to matter to us ? '
-- as grave as if she 'd been a hundred instead of eleven .
` Things matter SO much to me now , ' she says , clasping her hands thisaway , ` and I 'm sure that when I 'm sixty they'll matter just five times as much to me . '
Well , the way she looked and the way she spoke made me feel downright ashamed of myself because things had stopped mattering with me .
But never mind all that .
My miserable old feelings don't count for much .
What come of your father's fiddle ? ''
`` Grandfather took it away when I came here .
I think he burned it .
And I long for it so often . ''
`` Well , you've always got my old brown fiddle to come to when you must . ''
`` Yes , I know .
And I 'm glad for that .
But I 'm hungry for a violin all the time .
And I only come here when the hunger gets too much to bear .
I feel as if I oughtn't to come even then -- I 'm always saying I won't do it again , because I know grandfather wouldn't like it , if he knew . ''
`` He has never forbidden it , has he ? ''
`` No , but that is because he doesn't know I come here for that .
He never thinks of such a thing .
I feel sure he WOULD forbid it , if he knew .
And that makes me very wretched .
And yet I HAVE to come .
Mr. Blair , do you know why grandfather can't bear to have me play on the violin ?
He loves music , and he doesn't mind my playing on the organ , if I don't neglect other things .
I can't understand it , can you ? ''
`` I have a pretty good idea , but I can't tell you .
It isn't my secret .
Maybe he'll tell you himself some day .
But , mark you , young Felix , he has got good reasons for it all .
Knowing what I know , I can't blame him over much , though I think he's mistaken .
Come now , play something more for me before you go -- something that's bright and happy this time , so as to leave me with a good taste in my mouth .
That last thing you played took me straight to heaven , -- but heaven's awful near to hell , and at the last you tipped me in . ''
`` I don't understand you , '' said Felix , drawing his fine , narrow black brows together in a perplexed frown .
`` No -- and I wouldn't want you to .
You couldn't understand unless you was an old man who had it in him once to do something and be a MAN , and just went and made himself a devilish fool .
But there must be something in you that understands things -- all kinds of things -- or you couldn't put it all into music the way you do .
How do you do it ?
How in -- how DO you do it , young Felix ? ''
`` I don't know .
But I play differently to different people .
I don't know how that is .
When I 'm alone with you I have to play one way ; and when Janet comes over here to listen I feel quite another way -- not so thrilling , but happier and lonelier .
And that day when Jessie Blair was here listening I felt as if I wanted to laugh and sing -- as if the violin wanted to laugh and sing all the time . ''
The strange , golden gleam flashed through old Abel's sunken eyes .
`` God , '' he muttered under his breath , `` I believe the boy can get into other folk's souls somehow , and play out what HIS soul sees there . ''
`` What's that you say ? ''
inquired Felix , petting his fiddle .
`` Nothing -- never mind -- go on .
Something lively now , young Felix .
Stop probing into my soul , where you haven't no business to be , you infant , and play me something out of your own -- something sweet and happy and pure . ''
`` I'll play the way I feel on sunshiny mornings , when the birds are singing and I forget I have to be a minister , '' said Felix simply .
A witching , gurgling , mirthful strain , like mingled bird and brook song , floated out on the still air , along the path where the red and golden maple leaves were falling very softly , one by one .
The Reverend Stephen Leonard heard it , as he came along the way , and the Reverend Stephen Leonard smiled .
Now , when Stephen Leonard smiled , children ran to him , and grown people felt as if they looked from Pisgah over to some fair land of promise beyond the fret and worry of their care-dimmed earthly lives .
Mr. Leonard loved music , as he loved all things beautiful , whether in the material or the spiritual world , though he did not realize how much he loved them for their beauty alone , or he would have been shocked and remorseful .
He himself was beautiful .
His figure was erect and youthful , despite seventy years .
His face was as mobile and charming as a woman's , yet with all a man's tried strength and firmness in it , and his dark blue eyes flashed with the brilliance of one and twenty ; even his silken silvery hair could not make an old man of him .
He was worshipped by everyone who knew him , and he was , in so far as mortal man may be , worthy of that worship .
`` Old Abel is amusing himself with his violin again , '' he thought .
`` What a delicious thing he is playing !
He has quite a gift for the violin .
But how can he play such a thing as that , -- a battered old hulk of a man who has , at one time or another , wallowed in almost every sin to which human nature can sink ?
He was on one of his sprees three days ago -- the first one for over a year -- lying dead-drunk in the market square in Charlottetown among the dogs ; and now he is playing something that only a young archangel on the hills of heaven ought to be able to play .
Well , it will make my task all the easier .
Abel is always repentant by the time he is able to play on his fiddle . ''
Mr. Leonard was on the door-stone .
The little black dog had frisked down to meet him , and the gray cat rubbed her head against his leg .
Old Abel did not notice him ; he was beating time with uplifted hand and smiling face to Felix's music , and his eyes were young again , glowing with laughter and sheer happiness .
`` Felix !
what does this mean ? ''
The violin bow clattered from Felix's hand upon the floor ; he swung around and faced his grandfather .
As he met the passion of grief and hurt in the old man's eyes , his own clouded with an agony of repentance .
`` Grandfather -- I 'm sorry , '' he cried brokenly .
`` Now , now ! ''
Old Abel had risen deprecatingly .
`` It's all my fault , Mr. Leonard .
Don't you blame the boy .
I coaxed him to play a bit for me .
I didn't feel fit to touch the fiddle yet myself -- too soon after Friday , you see .
So I coaxed him on -- wouldn't give him no peace till he played .
It's all my fault . ''
`` No , '' said Felix , throwing back his head .
His face was as white as marble , yet it seemed ablaze with desperate truth and scorn of old Abel's shielding lie .
`` No , grandfather , it isn't Abel's fault .
I came over here on purpose to play , because I thought you had gone to the harbour .
I have come here often , ever since I have lived with you . ''
`` Ever since you have lived with me you have been deceiving me like this , Felix ? ''
There was no anger in Mr. Leonard's tone -- only measureless sorrow .
The boy's sensitive lips quivered .
`` Forgive me , grandfather , '' he whispered beseechingly .
`` You never forbid him to come , '' old Abel broke in angrily .
`` Be just , Mr. Leonard -- be just . ''
`` I AM just .
Felix knows that he has disobeyed me , in the spirit if not in the letter .
Do you not know it , Felix ? ''
`` Yes , grandfather , I have done wrong -- I've known that I was doing wrong every time I came .
Forgive me , grandfather . ''
`` Felix , I forgive you , but I ask you to promise me , here and now , that you will never again , as long as you live , touch a violin . ''
Dusky crimson rushed madly over the boy's face .
He gave a cry as if he had been lashed with a whip .
Old Abel sprang to his feet .
`` Don't you ask such a promise of him , Mr. Leonard , '' he cried furiously .
`` It's a sin , that's what it is .
Man , man , what blinds you ?
You ARE blind .
Can't you see what is in the boy ?
His soul is full of music .
It'll torture him to death -- or to worse -- if you don't let it have way . ''
`` There is a devil in such music , '' said Mr. Leonard hotly .
`` Ay , there may be , but don't forget that there's a Christ in it , too , '' retorted old Abel in a low tense tone .
Mr. Leonard looked shocked ; he considered that old Abel had uttered blasphemy .
He turned away from him rebukingly .
`` Felix , promise me . ''
There was no relenting in his face or tone .
He was merciless in the use of the power he possessed over that young , loving spirit .
Felix understood that there was no escape ; but his lips were very white as he said , `` I promise , grandfather . ''
Mr. Leonard drew a long breath of relief .
He knew that promise would be kept .
So did old Abel .
The latter crossed the floor and sullenly took the violin from Felix's relaxed hand .
Without a word or look he went into the little bedroom off the kitchen and shut the door with a slam of righteous indignation .
But from its window he stealthily watched his visitors go away .
Just as they entered on the maple path Mr. Leonard laid his hand on Felix's head and looked down at him .
Instantly the boy flung his arm up over the old man's shoulder and smiled at him .
In the look they exchanged there was boundless love and trust -- ay , and good-fellowship .
Old Abel's scornful eyes again held the golden flash .
`` How those two love each other ! ''
he muttered enviously .
`` And how they torture each other ! ''
Mr. Leonard went to his study to pray when he got home .
He knew that Felix had run for comforting to Janet Andrews , the little , thin , sweet-faced , rigid-lipped woman who kept house for them .
Mr. Leonard knew that Janet would disapprove of his action as deeply as old Abel had done .
She would say nothing , she would only look at him with reproachful eyes over the teacups at suppertime .
But Mr. Leonard believed he had done what was best and his conscience did not trouble him , though his heart did .
Thirteen years before this , his daughter Margaret had almost broken that heart by marrying a man of whom he could not approve .
Martin Moore was a professional violinist .
He was a popular performer , though not in any sense a great one .
He met the slim , golden-haired daughter of the manse at the house of a college friend she was visiting in Toronto , and fell straightway in love with her .
Margaret had loved him with all her virginal heart in return , and married him , despite her father's disapproval .
It was not to Martin Moore's profession that Mr. Leonard objected , but to the man himself .
He knew that the violinist's past life had not been such as became a suitor for Margaret Leonard ; and his insight into character warned him that Martin Moore could never make any woman lastingly happy .
Margaret Leonard did not believe this .
She married Martin Moore and lived one year in paradise .
Perhaps that atoned for the three bitter years which followed -- that , and her child .
At all events , she died as she had lived , loyal and uncomplaining .
She died alone , for her husband was away on a concert tour , and her illness was so brief that her father had not time to reach her before the end .
Her body was taken home to be buried beside her mother in the little Carmody churchyard .
Mr. Leonard wished to take the child , but Martin Moore refused to give him up .
Six years later Moore , too , died , and at last Mr. Leonard had his heart's desire -- the possession of Margaret's son .
The grandfather awaited the child's coming with mingled feelings .
His heart yearned for him , yet he dreaded to meet a second edition of Martin Moore .
Suppose Margaret's son resembled his handsome vagabond of a father !
Or , worse still , suppose he were cursed with his father's lack of principle , his instability , his Bohemian instincts .
Thus Mr. Leonard tortured himself wretchedly before the coming of Felix .
The child did not look like either father or mother .
Instead , Mr. Leonard found himself looking into a face which he had put away under the grasses thirty years before -- the face of his girl bride , who had died at Margaret's birth .
Here again were her lustrous gray-black eyes , her ivory outlines , her fine-traced arch of brow ; and here , looking out of those eyes , seemed her very spirit again .
From that moment the soul of the old man was knit to the soul of the child , and they loved each other with a love surpassing that of women .
Felix's only inheritance from his father was his love of music .
But the child had genius , where his father had possessed only talent .
To Martin Moore's outward mastery of the violin was added the mystery and intensity of his mother's nature , with some more subtle quality still , which had perhaps come to him from the grandmother he so strongly resembled .
Moore had understood what a career was naturally before the child , and he had trained him in the technique of his art from the time the slight fingers could first grasp the bow .
When nine-year-old Felix came to the Carmody manse , he had mastered as much of the science of the violin as nine out of ten musicians acquire in a lifetime ; and he brought with him his father's violin ; it was all Martin Moore had to leave his son -- but it was an Amati , the commercial value of which nobody in Carmody suspected .
Mr. Leonard had taken possession of it and Felix had never seen it since .
He cried himself to sleep many a night for the loss of it .
Mr. Leonard did not know this , and if Janet Andrews suspected it she held her tongue -- an art in which she excelled .
She `` saw no harm in a fiddle , '' herself , and thought Mr. Leonard absurdly strict in the matter , though it would not have been well for the luckless outsider who might have ventured to say as much to her .
She had connived at Felix's visits to old Abel Blair , squaring the matter with her Presbyterian conscience by some peculiar process known only to herself .
When Janet heard of the promise which Mr. Leonard had exacted from Felix she seethed with indignation ; and , though she `` knew her place '' better than to say anything to Mr. Leonard about it , she made her disapproval so plainly manifest in her bearing that the stern , gentle old man found the atmosphere of his hitherto peaceful manse unpleasantly chill and hostile for a time .
It was the wish of his heart that Felix should be a minister , as he would have wished his own son to be , had one been born to him .
Mr. Leonard thought rightly that the highest work to which any man could be called was a life of service to his fellows ; but he made the mistake of supposing the field of service much narrower than it is -- of failing to see that a man may minister to the needs of humanity in many different but equally effective ways .
Janet hoped that Mr. Leonard might not exact the fulfilment of Felix's promise ; but Felix himself , with the instinctive understanding of perfect love , knew that it was vain to hope for any change of viewpoint in his grandfather .
He addressed himself to the keeping of his promise in letter and in spirit .
He never went again to old Abel's ; he did not even play on the organ , though this was not forbidden , because any music wakened in him a passion of longing and ecstasy which demanded expression with an intensity not to be borne .
He flung himself grimly into his studies and conned Latin and Greek verbs with a persistency which soon placed him at the head of all competitors .
Only once in the long winter did he come near to breaking his promise .
One evening , when March was melting into April , and the pulses of spring were stirring under the lingering snow , he was walking home from school alone .
As he descended into the little hollow below the manse a lively lilt of music drifted up to meet him .
It was only the product of a mouth-organ , manipulated by a little black-eyed , French-Canadian hired boy , sitting on the fence by the brook ; but there was music in the ragged urchin and it came out through his simple toy .
It tingled over Felix from head to foot ; and , when Leon held out the mouth-organ with a fraternal grin of invitation , he snatched at it as a famished creature might snatch at food .
Then , with it half-way to his lips , he paused .
True , it was only the violin he had promised never to touch ; but he felt that if he gave way ever so little to the desire that was in him , it would sweep everything before it .
If he played on Leon Buote's mouth-organ , there in that misty spring dale , he would go to old Abel's that evening ; he KNEW he would go .
To Leon's amazement , Felix threw the mouth-organ back at him and ran up the hill as if he were pursued .
There was something in his boyish face that frightened Leon ; and it frightened Janet Andrews as Felix rushed past her in the hall of the manse .
`` Child , what's the matter with you ? ''
she cried .
`` Are you sick ?
Have you been scared ? ''
`` No , no .
Leave me alone , Janet , '' said Felix chokingly , dashing up the stairs to his own room .
He was quite composed when he came down to tea , an hour later , though he was unusually pale and had purple shadows under his large eyes .
Mr. Leonard scrutinized him somewhat anxiously ; it suddenly occurred to the old minister that Felix was looking more delicate than his wont this spring .
Well , he had studied hard all winter , and he was certainly growing very fast .
When vacation came he must be sent away for a visit .
`` They tell me Naomi Clark is real sick , '' said Janet .
`` She has been ailing all winter , and now she's fast to her bed .
Mrs. Murphy says she believes the woman is dying , but nobody dares tell her so .
She won't give in she's sick , nor take medicine .
And there's nobody to wait on her except that simple creature , Maggie Peterson . ''
`` I wonder if I ought to go and see her , '' said Mr. Leonard uneasily .
`` What use would it be to bother yourself ?
You know she wouldn't see you -- she 'd shut the door in your face like she did before .
She's an awful wicked woman -- but it's kind of terrible to think of her lying there sick , with no responsible person to tend her . ''
`` Naomi Clark is a bad woman and she lived a life of shame , but I like her , for all that , '' remarked Felix , in the grave , meditative tone in which he occasionally said rather startling things .
Mr. Leonard looked somewhat reproachfully at Janet Andrews , as if to ask her why Felix should have attained to this dubious knowledge of good and evil under her care ; and Janet shot a dour look back which , being interpreted , meant that if Felix went to the district school she could not and would not be held responsible if he learned more there than arithmetic and Latin .
`` What do you know of Naomi Clark to like or dislike ? ''
she asked curiously .
`` Did you ever see her ? ''
`` Oh , yes , '' Felix replied , addressing himself to his cherry preserve with considerable gusto .
`` I was down at Spruce Cove one night last summer when a big thunderstorm came up .
I went to Naomi's house for shelter .
The door was open , so I walked right in , because nobody answered my knock .
Naomi Clark was at the window , watching the cloud coming up over the sea .
She just looked at me once , but didn't say anything , and then went on watching the cloud .
I didn't like to sit down because she hadn't asked me to , so I went to the window by her and watched it , too .
It was a dreadful sight -- the cloud was so black and the water so green , and there was such a strange light between the cloud and the water ; yet there was something splendid in it , too .
Part of the time I watched the storm , and the other part I watched Naomi's face .
It was dreadful to see , like the storm , and yet I liked to see it .
`` After the thunder was over it rained a while longer , and Naomi sat down and talked to me .
She asked me who I was , and when I told her she asked me to play something for her on her violin , '' -- Felix shot a deprecating glance at Mr. Leonard -- `` because , she said , she 'd heard I was a great hand at it .
She wanted something lively , and I tried just as hard as I could to play something like that .
But I couldn't .
I played something that was terrible -- it just played itself -- it seemed as if something was lost that could never be found again .
And before I got through , Naomi came at me , and tore the violin from me , and -- SWORE .
And she said , ` You big-eyed brat , how did you know THAT ? '
Then she took me by the arm -- and she hurt me , too , I can tell you -- and she put me right out in the rain and slammed the door . ''
`` The rude , unmannerly creature ! ''
said Janet indignantly .
`` Oh , no , she was quite in the right , '' said Felix composedly .
`` It served me right for what I played .
You see , she didn't know I couldn't help playing it .
I suppose she thought I did it on purpose . ''
`` What on earth did you play , child ? ''
`` I don't know . ''
Felix shivered .
`` It was awful -- it was dreadful .
It was fit to break you heart .
But it HAD to be played , if I played anything at all . ''
`` I don't understand what you mean -- I declare I don't , '' said Janet in bewilderment .
`` I think we'll change the subject of conversation , '' said Mr. Leonard .
It was a month later when `` the simple creature , Maggie '' appeared at the manse door one evening and asked for the preached .
`` Naomi wants ter see yer , '' she mumbled .
`` Naomi sent Maggie ter tell yer ter come at once . ''
`` I shall go , certainly , '' said Mr. Leonard gently .
`` Is she very ill ? ''
`` Her's dying , '' said Maggie with a broad grin .
`` And her's awful skeered of hell .
Her just knew ter-day her was dying .
Maggie told her -- her wouldn't believe the harbour women , but her believed Maggie .
Her yelled awful . ''
Maggie chuckled to herself over the gruesome remembrance .
Mr. Leonard , his heart filled with pity , called Janet and told her to give the poor creature some refreshment .
But Maggie shook her head .
`` No , no , preacher , Maggie must get right back to Naomi .
Maggie'll tell her the preacher's coming ter save her from hell . ''
She uttered an eerie cry , and ran at full speed shoreward through the spruce woods .
`` The Lord save us ! ''
said Janet in an awed tone .
`` I knew the poor girl was simple , but I didn't know she was like THAT .
And are you going , sir ? ''
`` Yes , of course .
I pray God I may be able to help the poor soul , '' said Mr. Leonard sincerely .
He was a man who never shirked what he believed to be his duty ; but duty had sometimes presented itself to him in pleasanter guise than this summons to Naomi Clark's death-bed .
The woman had been the plague spot of Lower Carmody and Carmody Harbour for a generation .
In the earlier days of his ministry to the congregation he had tried to reclaim her , and Naomi had mocked and flouted him to his face .
Then , for the sake of those to whom she was a snare or a heart-break , he had endeavoured to set the law in motion against her , and Naomi had laughed the law to scorn .
Finally , he had been compelled to let her alone .
Yet Naomi had not always been an outcast .
Her girlhood had been innocent ; but she was the possessor of a dangerous beauty , and her mother was dead .
Her father was a man notorious for his harshness and violence of temper .
When Naomi made the fatal mistake of trusting to a false love that betrayed and deserted , he drove her from his door with taunts and curses .
Naomi took up her quarters in a little deserted house at Spruce Cove .
Had her child lived it might have saved her .
But it died at birth , and with its little life went her last chance of worldly redemption .
From that time forth , her feet were set in the way that takes hold on hell .
For the past five years , however , Naomi had lived a tolerably respectable life .
When Janet Peterson had died , her idiot daughter , Maggie , had been left with no kin in the world .
Nobody knew what was to be done with her , for nobody wanted to be bothered with her .
Naomi Clark went to the girl and offered her a home .
People said she was no fit person to have charge of Maggie , but everybody shirked the unpleasant task of interfering in the matter , except Mr. Leonard , who went to expostulate with Naomi , and , as Janet said , for his pains got her door shut in his face .
But from the day when Maggie Peterson went to live with her , Naomi ceased to be the harbour Magdalen .
The sun had set when Mr. Leonard reached Spruce Cove , and the harbour was veiling itself in a wondrous twilight splendour .
Afar out , the sea lay throbbing and purple , and the moan of the bar came through the sweet , chill spring air with its burden of hopeless , endless longing and seeking .
The sky was blossoming into stars above the afterglow ; out to the east the moon was rising , and the sea beneath it was a thing of radiance and silver and glamour ; and a little harbour boat that went sailing across it was transmuted into an elfin shallop from the coast of fairyland .
Mr. Leonard sighed as he turned from the sinless beauty of the sea and sky to the threshold of Naomi Clark's house .
It was very small -- one room below , and a sleeping-loft above ; but a bed had been made up for the sick woman by the down-stairs window looking out on the harbour ; and Naomi lay on it , with a lamp burning at her head and another at her side , although it was not yet dark .
A great dread of darkness had always been one of Naomi's peculiarities .
She was tossing restlessly on her poor couch , while Maggie crouched on a box at the foot .
Mr. Leonard had not seen her for five years , and he was shocked at the change in her .
She was much wasted ; her clear-cut , aquiline features had been of the type which becomes indescribably witch-like in old age , and , though Naomi Clark was barely sixty , she looked as if she might be a hundred .
Her hair streamed over the pillow in white , uncared-for tresses , and the hands that plucked at the bed-clothes were like wrinkled claws .
Only her eyes were unchanged ; they were as blue and brilliant as ever , but now filled with such agonized terror and appeal that Mr. Leonard's gentle heart almost stood still with the horror of them .
They were the eyes of a creature driven wild with torture , hounded by furies , clutched by unutterable fear .
Naomi sat up and dragged at his arm .
`` Can you help me ?
Can you help me ? ''
she gasped imploringly .
`` Oh , I thought you 'd never come !
I was skeered I 'd die before you got here -- die and go to hell .
I didn't know before today that I was dying .
None of those cowards would tell me .
Can you help me ? ''
`` If I can not , God can , '' said Mr. Leonard gently .
He felt himself very helpless and inefficient before this awful terror and frenzy .
He had seen sad death-beds -- troubled death-beds -- ay , and despairing death-beds , but never anything like this .
`` God ! ''
Naomi's voice shrilled terribly as she uttered the name .
`` I can't go to God for help .
Oh , I 'm skeered of hell , but I 'm skeereder still of God .
I 'd rather go to hell a thousand times over than face God after the life I've lived .
I tell you , I 'm sorry for living wicked -- I was always sorry for it all the time .
There ain't never been a moment I wasn't sorry , though nobody would believe it .
I was driven on by fiends of hell .
Oh , you don't understand -- you CAn't understand -- but I was always sorry ! ''
`` If you repent , that is all that is necessary .
God will forgive you if you ask Him . ''
`` No , He can't !
Sins like mine can't be forgiven .
He can't -- and He won't . ''
`` He can and He will .
He is a God of love , Naomi . ''
`` No , '' said Naomi with stubborn conviction .
`` He isn't a God of love at all .
That's why I 'm skeered of him .
No , no .
He's a God of wrath and justice and punishment .
Love !
There ain't no such thing as love !
I've never found it on earth , and I don't believe it's to be found in God . ''
`` Naomi , God loves us like a father . ''
`` Like MY father ? ''
Naomi's shrill laughter , pealing through the still room , was hideous to hear .
The old minister shuddered .
`` No -- no !
As a kind , tender , all-wise father , Naomi -- as you would have loved your little child if it had lived . ''
Naomi cowered and moaned .
`` Oh , I wish I could believe THAT .
I wouldn't be frightened if I could believe that .
MAKE me believe it .
Surely you can make me believe that there's love and forgiveness in God if you believe it yourself . ''
`` Jesus Christ forgave and loved the Magdalen , Naomi . ''
`` Jesus Christ ?
Oh , I ain't afraid of HIM .
Yes , HE could understand and forgive .
He was half human .
I tell you , it's God I 'm skeered of . ''
`` They are one and the same , '' said Mr. Leonard helplessly .
He knew he could not make Naomi realize it .
This anguished death-bed was no place for a theological exposition on the mysteries of the Trinity .
`` Christ died for you , Naomi .
He bore your sins in His own body on the cross . ''
`` We bear our own sins , '' said Naomi fiercely .
`` I've borne mine all my life -- and I'll bear them for all eternity .
I can't believe anything else .
I CAn't believe God can forgive me .
I've ruined people body and soul -- I've broken hearts and poisoned homes -- I 'm worse than a murderess .
No -- no -- no , there's no hope for me . ''
Her voice rose again into that shrill , intolerable shriek .
`` I've got to go to hell .
It ain't so much the fire I 'm skeered of as the outer darkness .
I've always been so skeered of darkness -- it's so full of awful things and thoughts .
Oh , there ain't nobody to help me !
Man ain't no good and I 'm too skeered of God . ''
She wrung her hands .
Mr. Leonard walked up and down the room in the keenest anguish of spirit he had ever known .
What could he do ?
What could he say ?
There was healing and peace in his religion for this woman as for all others , but he could express it in no language which this tortured soul could understand .
He looked at her writhing face ; he looked at the idiot girl chuckling to herself at the foot of the bed ; he looked through the open door to the remote , starlit night -- and a horrible sense of utter helplessness overcame him .
He could do nothing -- nothing !
In all his life he had never known such bitterness of soul as the realization brought home to him .
`` What is the good of you if you can't help me ? ''
moaned the dying woman .
`` Pray -- pray -- pray ! ''
she shrilled suddenly .
Mr. Leonard dropped on his knees by the bed .
He did not know what to say .
No prayer that he had ever prayed was of use here .
The old , beautiful formulas , which had soothed and helped the passing of many a soul , were naught save idle , empty words to Naomi Clark .
In his anguish of mind Stephen Leonard gasped out the briefest and sincerest prayer his lips had ever uttered .
`` O , God , our Father !
Help this woman .
Speak to her in a tongue which she can understand . ''
A beautiful , white face appeared for a moment in the light that streamed out of the doorway into the darkness of the night .
No one noticed it , and it quickly drew back into the shadow .
Suddenly , Naomi fell back on her pillow , her lips blue , her face horribly pinched , her eyes rolled up in her head .
Maggie started up , pushed Mr. Leonard aside , and proceeded to administer some remedy with surprising skill and deftness .
Mr. Leonard , believing Naomi to be dying , went to the door , feeling sick and bruised in soul .
Presently a figure stole out into the light .
`` Felix , is that you ? ''
said Mr. Leonard in a startled tone .
`` Yes , sir . ''
Felix came up to the stone step .
`` Janet got frightened what you might fall on that rough road after dark , so she made me come after you with a lantern .
I've been waiting behind the point , but at last I thought I 'd better come and see if you would be staying much longer .
If you will be , I'll go back to Janet and leave the lantern here with you . ''
`` Yes , that will be the best thing to do .
I may not be ready to go home for some time yet , '' said Mr. Leonard , thinking that the death-bed of sin behind him was no sight for Felix's young eyes .
`` Is that your grandson you 're talking to ? ''
Naomi spoke clearly and strongly .
The spasm had passed .
`` If it is , bring him in .
I want to see him . ''
Reluctantly , Mr. Leonard signed Felix to enter .
The boy stood by Naomi's bed and looked down at her with sympathetic eyes .
But at first she did not look at him -- she looked past him at the minister .
`` I might have died in that spell , '' she said , with sullen reproach in her voice , `` and if I had , I 'd been in hell now .
You can't help me -- I 'm done with you .
There ain't any hope for me , and I know it now . ''
She turned to Felix .
`` Take down that fiddle on the wall and play something for me , '' she said imperiously .
`` I 'm dying -- and I 'm going to hell -- and I don't want to think of it .
Play me something to take my thoughts off it -- I don't care what you play .
I was always fond of music -- there was always something in it for me I never found anywhere else . ''
Felix looked at his grandfather .
The old man nodded , he felt too ashamed to speak ; he sat with his fine silver head in his hands , while Felix took down and tuned the old violin , on which so many godless lilts had been played in many a wild revel .
Mr. Leonard felt that he had failed his religion .
He could not give Naomi the help that was in it for her .
Felix drew the bow softly , perplexedly over the strings .
He had no idea what he should play .
Then his eyes were caught and held by Naomi's burning , mesmeric , blue gaze as she lay on her crumpled pillow .
A strange , inspired look came over the boy's face .
He began to play as if it were not he who played , but some mightier power , of which he was but the passive instrument .
Sweet and soft and wonderful was the music that stole through the room .
Mr. Leonard forgot his heartbreak and listened to it in puzzled amazement .
He had never heard anything like it before .
How could the child play like that ?
He looked at Naomi and marvelled at the change in her face .
The fear and frenzy were going out of it ; she listened breathlessly , never taking her eyes from Felix .
At the foot of the bed the idiot girl sat with tears on her cheeks .
In that strange music was the joy of the innocent , mirthful childhood , blent with the laughter of waves and the call of glad winds .
Then it held the wild , wayward dreams of youth , sweet and pure in all their wildness and waywardness .
They were followed by a rapture of young love -- all-surrendering , all-sacrificing love .
The music changed .
It held the torture of unshed tears , the anguish of a heart deceived and desolate .
Mr. Leonard almost put his hands over his ears to shut out its intolerable poignancy .
But on the dying woman's face was only a strange relief , as if some dumb , long-hidden pain had at last won to the healing of utterance .
The sullen indifference of despair came next , the bitterness of smouldering revolt and misery , the reckless casting away of all good .
There was something indescribably evil in the music now -- so evil that Mr. Leonard's white soul shuddered away in loathing , and Maggie cowered and whined like a frightened animal .
Again the music changed .
And in it now there was agony and fear -- and repentance and a cry for pardon .
To Mr. Leonard there was something strangely familiar in it .
He struggled to recall where he had heard it before ; then he suddenly knew -- he had heard it before Felix came in Naomi's terrible words !
He looked at his grandson with something like awe .
Here was a power of which he knew nothing -- a strange and dreadful power .
Was it of God ?
Or of Satan ?
For the last time the music changed .
And now it was not music at all -- it was a great , infinite forgiveness , an all-comprehending love .
It was healing for a sick soul ; it was light and hope and peace .
A Bible text , seemingly incongruous , came into Mr. Leonard's mind -- `` This is the house of God ; this is the gate of heaven . ''
Felix lowered the violin and dropped wearily on a chair by the bed .
The inspired light faded from his face ; once more he was only a tired boy .
But Stephen Leonard was on his knees , sobbing like a child ; and Naomi Clark was lying still , with her hands clasped over her breast .
`` I understand now , '' she said very softly .
`` I couldn't see it before -- and now it's so plain .
I just FEEL it .
God IS a God of love .
He can forgive anybody -- even me -- even me .
He knows all about it .
I ain't skeered any more .
He just loves me and forgives me as I 'd have loved and forgiven my baby if she 'd lived , no matter how bad she was , or what she did .
The minister told me that but I couldn't believe it .
I KNOW it now .
And He sent you here to-night , boy , to tell it to me in a way that I could feel it . ''
Naomi Clark died just as the dawn came up over the sea .
Mr. Leonard rose from his watch at her bedside and went to the door .
Before him spread the harbour , gray and austere in the faint light , but afar out the sun was rending asunder the milk-white mists in which the sea was scarfed , and under it was a virgin glow of sparkling water .
The fir trees on the point moved softly and whispered together .
The whole world sang of spring and resurrection and life ; and behind him Naomi Clark's dead face took on the peace that passes understanding .
The old minister and his grandson walked home together in a silence that neither wished to break .
Janet Andrews gave them a good scolding and an excellent breakfast .
Then she ordered them both to bed ; but Mr. Leonard , smiling at her , said : `` Presently , Janet , presently .
But now , take this key , go up to the black chest in the garret , and bring me what you will find there . ''
When Janet had gone , he turned to Felix .
`` Felix , would you like to study music as your life-work ? ''
Felix looked up , with a transfiguring flush on his wan face .
`` Oh , grandfather !
Oh , grandfather ! ''
`` You may do so , my child .
After this night I dare not hinder you .
Go with my blessing , and may God guide and keep you , and make you strong to do His work and tell His message to humanity in you own appointed way .
It is not the way I desired for you -- but I see that I was mistaken .
Old Abel spoke truly when he said there was a Christ in your violin as well as a devil .
I understand what he meant now . ''
He turned to meet Janet , who came into the study with a violin .
Felix's heart throbbed ; he recognized it .
Mr. Leonard took it from Janet and held it out to the boy .
`` This is your father's violin , Felix .
See to it that you never make your music the servant of the power of evil -- never debase it to unworthy ends .
For your responsibility is as your gift , and God will exact the accounting of it from you .
Speak to the world in your own tongue through it , with truth and sincerity ; and all I have hoped for you will be abundantly fulfilled . ''
