Three little Fairies sat in the fields eating their breakfast ; each among the leaves of her favorite flower , Daisy , Primrose , and Violet , were happy as Elves need be .
The morning wind gently rocked them to and fro , and the sun shone warmly down upon the dewy grass , where butterflies spread their gay wings , and bees with their deep voices sung among the flowers ; while the little birds hopped merrily about to peep at them .
On a silvery mushroom was spread the breakfast ; little cakes of flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf , beside a crimson strawberry , which , with sugar from the violet , and cream from the yellow milkweed , made a fairy meal , and their drink was the dew from the flowers ' bright leaves .
`` Ah me , '' sighed Primrose , throwing herself languidly back , `` how warm the sun grows !
give me another piece of strawberry , and then I must hasten away to the shadow of the ferns .
But while I eat , tell me , dear Violet , why are you all so sad ?
I have scarce seen a happy face since my return from Rose Land ; dear friend , what means it ? ''
`` I will tell you , '' replied little Violet , the tears gathering in her soft eyes .
`` Our good Queen is ever striving to keep the dear flowers from the power of the cruel Frost-King ; many ways she tried , but all have failed .
She has sent messengers to his court with costly gifts ; but all have returned sick for want of sunlight , weary and sad ; we have watched over them , heedless of sun or shower , but still his dark spirits do their work , and we are left to weep over our blighted blossoms .
Thus have we striven , and in vain ; and this night our Queen holds council for the last time .
Therefore are we sad , dear Primrose , for she has toiled and cared for us , and we can do nothing to help or advise her now . ''
`` It is indeed a cruel thing , '' replied her friend ; `` but as we can not help it , we must suffer patiently , and not let the sorrows of others disturb our happiness .
But , dear sisters , see you not how high the sun is getting ?
I have my locks to curl , and my robe to prepare for the evening ; therefore I must be gone , or I shall be brown as a withered leaf in this warm light . ''
So , gathering a tiny mushroom for a parasol , she flew away ; Daisy soon followed , and Violet was left alone .
Then she spread the table afresh , and to it came fearlessly the busy ant and bee , gay butterfly and bird ; even the poor blind mole and humble worm were not forgotten ; and with gentle words she gave to all , while each learned something of their kind little teacher ; and the love that made her own heart bright shone alike on all .
The ant and bee learned generosity , the butterfly and bird contentment , the mole and worm confidence in the love of others ; and each went to their home better for the little time they had been with Violet .
Evening came , and with it troops of Elves to counsel their good Queen , who , seated on her mossy throne , looked anxiously upon the throng below , whose glittering wings and rustling robes gleamed like many-colored flowers .
At length she rose , and amid the deep silence spoke thus : -- `` Dear children , let us not tire of a good work , hard though it be and wearisome ; think of the many little hearts that in their sorrow look to us for help .
What would the green earth be without its lovely flowers , and what a lonely home for us !
Their beauty fills our hearts with brightness , and their love with tender thoughts .
Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone ?
They give to us their all ; ought we not to toil unceasingly , that they may bloom in peace within their quiet homes ?
We have tried to gain the love of the stern Frost-King , but in vain ; his heart is hard as his own icy land ; no love can melt , no kindness bring it back to sunlight and to joy .
How then may we keep our frail blossoms from his cruel spirits ?
Who will give us counsel ?
Who will be our messenger for the last time ?
Speak , my subjects . ''
Then a great murmuring arose , and many spoke , some for costlier gifts , some for war ; and the fearful counselled patience and submission .
Long and eagerly they spoke , and their soft voices rose high .
Then sweet music sounded on the air , and the loud tones were hushed , as in wondering silence the Fairies waited what should come .
Through the crowd there came a little form , a wreath of pure white violets lay among the bright locks that fell so softly round the gentle face , where a deep blush glowed , as , kneeling at the throne , little Violet said : -- `` Dear Queen , we have bent to the Frost-King's power , we have borne gifts unto his pride , but have we gone trustingly to him and spoken fearlessly of his evil deeds ?
Have we shed the soft light of unwearied love around his cold heart , and with patient tenderness shown him how bright and beautiful love can make even the darkest lot ?
`` Our messengers have gone fearfully , and with cold looks and courtly words offered him rich gifts , things he cared not for , and with equal pride has he sent them back .
`` Then let me , the weakest of your band , go to him , trusting in the love I know lies hidden in the coldest heart .
`` I will bear only a garland of our fairest flowers ; these will I wind about him , and their bright faces , looking lovingly in his , will bring sweet thoughts to his dark mind , and their soft breath steal in like gentle words .
Then , when he sees them fading on his breast , will he not sigh that there is no warmth there to keep them fresh and lovely ?
This will I do , dear Queen , and never leave his dreary home , till the sunlight falls on flowers fair as those that bloom in our own dear land . ''
Silently the Queen had listened , but now , rising and placing her hand on little Violet's head , she said , turning to the throng below : -- `` We in our pride and power have erred , while this , the weakest and lowliest of our subjects , has from the innocence of her own pure heart counselled us more wisely than the noblest of our train .
All who will aid our brave little messenger , lift your wands , that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of Love . ''
Every fairy wand glistened in the air , as with silvery voices they cried , `` Love and little Violet . ''
Then down from the throne , hand in hand , came the Queen and Violet , and till the moon sank did the Fairies toil , to weave a wreath of the fairest flowers .
Tenderly they gathered them , with the night-dew fresh upon their leaves , and as they wove chanted sweet spells , and whispered fairy blessings on the bright messengers whom they sent forth to die in a dreary land , that their gentle kindred might bloom unharmed .
At length it was done ; and the fair flowers lay glowing in the soft starlight , while beside them stood the Fairies , singing to the music of the wind-harps : -- `` We are sending you , dear flowers , Forth alone to die , Where your gentle sisters may not weep O'er the cold graves where you lie ; But you go to bring them fadeless life In the bright homes where they dwell , And you softly smile that ' t is so , As we sadly sing farewell .
O plead with gentle words for us , And whisper tenderly Of generous love to that cold heart , And it will answer ye ; And though you fade in a dreary home , Yet loving hearts will tell Of the joy and peace that you have given : Flowers , dear flowers , farewell ! ''
The morning sun looked softly down upon the broad green earth , which like a mighty altar was sending up clouds of perfume from its breast , while flowers danced gayly in the summer wind , and birds sang their morning hymn among the cool green leaves .
Then high above , on shining wings , soared a little form .
The sunlight rested softly on the silken hair , and the winds fanned lovingly the bright face , and brought the sweetest odors to cheer her on .
Thus went Violet through the clear air , and the earth looked smiling up to her , as , with the bright wreath folded in her arms , she flew among the soft , white clouds .
On and on she went , over hill and valley , broad rivers and rustling woods , till the warm sunlight passed away , the winds grew cold , and the air thick with falling snow .
Then far below she saw the Frost-King's home .
Pillars of hard , gray ice supported the high , arched roof , hung with crystal icicles .
Dreary gardens lay around , filled with withered flowers and bare , drooping trees ; while heavy clouds hung low in the dark sky , and a cold wind murmured sadly through the wintry air .
With a beating heart Violet folded her fading wreath more closely to her breast , and with weary wings flew onward to the dreary palace .
Here , before the closed doors , stood many forms with dark faces and harsh , discordant voices , who sternly asked the shivering little Fairy why she came to them .
Gently she answered , telling them her errand , beseeching them to let her pass ere the cold wind blighted her frail blossoms .
Then they flung wide the doors , and she passed in .
Walls of ice , carved with strange figures , were around her ; glittering icicles hung from the high roof , and soft , white snow covered the hard floors .
On a throne hung with clouds sat the Frost-King ; a crown of crystals bound his white locks , and a dark mantle wrought with delicate frost-work was folded over his cold breast .
His stern face could not stay little Violet , and on through the long hall she went , heedless of the snow that gathered on her feet , and the bleak wind that blew around her ; while the King with wondering eyes looked on the golden light that played upon the dark walls as she passed .
The flowers , as if they knew their part , unfolded their bright leaves , and poured forth their sweetest perfume , as , kneeling at the throne , the brave little Fairy said , -- `` O King of blight and sorrow , send me not away till I have brought back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright and beautiful again .
Let me call back to the desolate gardens the fair forms that are gone , and their soft voices blessing you will bring to your breast a never failing joy .
Cast by your icy crown and sceptre , and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your heart .
`` Then will the earth bloom again in all its beauty , and your dim eyes will rest only on fair forms , while music shall sound through these dreary halls , and the love of grateful hearts be yours .
Have pity on the gentle flower-spirits , and do not doom them to an early death , when they might bloom in fadeless beauty , making us wiser by their gentle teachings , and the earth brighter by their lovely forms .
These fair flowers , with the prayers of all Fairy Land , I lay before you ; O send me not away till they are answered . ''
And with tears falling thick and fast upon their tender leaves , Violet laid the wreath at his feet , while the golden light grew ever brighter as it fell upon the little form so humbly kneeling there .
The King's stern face grew milder as he gazed on the gentle Fairy , and the flowers seemed to look beseechingly upon him ; while their fragrant voices sounded softly in his ear , telling of their dying sisters , and of the joy it gives to bring happiness to the weak and sorrowing .
But he drew the dark mantle closer over his breast and answered coldly , -- `` I can not grant your prayer , little Fairy ; it is my will the flowers should die .
Go back to your Queen , and tell her that I can not yield my power to please these foolish flowers . ''
Then Violet hung the wreath above the throne , and with weary foot went forth again , out into the cold , dark gardens , and still the golden shadows followed her , and wherever they fell , flowers bloomed and green leaves rustled .
Then came the Frost-Spirits , and beneath their cold wings the flowers died , while the Spirits bore Violet to a low , dark cell , saying as they left her , that their King was angry that she had dared to stay when he had bid her go .
So all alone she sat , and sad thoughts of her happy home came back to her , and she wept bitterly .
But soon came visions of the gentle flowers dying in their forest homes , and their voices ringing in her ear , imploring her to save them .
Then she wept no longer , but patiently awaited what might come .
Soon the golden light gleamed faintly through the cell , and she heard little voices calling for help , and high up among the heavy cobwebs hung poor little flies struggling to free themselves , while their cruel enemies sat in their nets , watching their pain .
With her wand the Fairy broke the bands that held them , tenderly bound up their broken wings , and healed their wounds ; while they lay in the warm light , and feebly hummed their thanks to their kind deliverer .
Then she went to the ugly brown spiders , and in gentle words told them , how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin cloth , and in return the Fairies gave them food , and then how happily they lived among the green leaves , spinning garments for their neighbors .
`` And you too , '' said she , `` shall spin for me , and I will give you better food than helpless insects .
You shall live in peace , and spin your delicate threads into a mantle for the stern King ; and I will weave golden threads amid the gray , that when folded over his cold heart gentle thoughts may enter in and make it their home . ''
And while she gayly sung , the little weavers spun their silken threads , the flies on glittering wings flew lovingly above her head , and over all the golden light shone softly down .
When the Frost-Spirits told their King , he greatly wondered and often stole to look at the sunny little room where friends and enemies worked peacefully together .
Still the light grew brighter , and floated out into the cold air , where it hung like bright clouds above the dreary gardens , whence all the Spirits ' power could not drive it ; and green leaves budded on the naked trees , and flowers bloomed ; but the Spirits heaped snow upon them , and they bowed their heads and died .
At length the mantle was finished , and amid the gray threads shone golden ones , making it bright ; and she sent it to the King , entreating him to wear it , for it would bring peace and love to dwell within his breast .
But he scornfully threw it aside , and bade his Spirits take her to a colder cell , deep in the earth ; and there with harsh words they left her .
Still she sang gayly on , and the falling drops kept time so musically , that the King in his cold ice-halls wondered at the low , sweet sounds that came stealing up to him .
Thus Violet dwelt , and each day the golden light grew stronger ; and from among the crevices of the rocky walls came troops of little velvet-coated moles , praying that they might listen to the sweet music , and lie in the warm light .
`` We lead , '' said they , `` a dreary life in the cold earth ; the flower-roots are dead , and no soft dews descend for us to drink , no little seed or leaf can we find .
Ah , good Fairy , let us be your servants : give us but a few crumbs of your daily bread , and we will do all in our power to serve you . ''
And Violet said , Yes ; so day after day they labored to make a pathway through the frozen earth , that she might reach the roots of the withered flowers ; and soon , wherever through the dark galleries she went , the soft light fell upon the roots of flowers , and they with new life spread forth in the warm ground , and forced fresh sap to the blossoms above .
Brightly they bloomed and danced in the soft light , and the Frost-Spirits tried in vain to harm them , for when they came beneath the bright clouds their power to do evil left them .
From his dark castle the King looked out on the happy flowers , who nodded gayly to him , and in sweet colors strove to tell him of the good little Spirit , who toiled so faithfully below , that they might live .
And when he turned from the brightness without , to his stately palace , it seemed so cold and dreary , that he folded Violet's mantle round him , and sat beneath the faded wreath upon his ice-carved throne , wondering at the strange warmth that came from it ; till at length he bade his Spirits bring the little Fairy from her dismal prison .
Soon they came hastening back , and prayed him to come and see how lovely the dark cell had grown .
The rough floor was spread with deep green moss , and over wall and roof grew flowery vines , filling the air with their sweet breath ; while above played the clear , soft light , casting rosy shadows on the glittering drops that lay among the fragrant leaves ; and beneath the vines stood Violet , casting crumbs to the downy little moles who ran fearlessly about and listened as she sang to them .
When the old King saw how much fairer she had made the dreary cell than his palace rooms , gentle thoughts within whispered him to grant her prayer , and let the little Fairy go back to her friends and home ; but the Frost-Spirits breathed upon the flowers and bid him see how frail they were , and useless to a King .
Then the stern , cold thoughts came back again , and he harshly bid her follow him .
With a sad farewell to her little friends she followed him , and before the throne awaited his command .
When the King saw how pale and sad the gentle face had grown , how thin her robe , and weak her wings , and yet how lovingly the golden shadows fell around her and brightened as they lay upon the wand , which , guided by patient love , had made his once desolate home so bright , he could not be cruel to the one who had done so much for him , and in kindly tone he said , -- `` Little Fairy , I offer you two things , and you may choose between them .
If I will vow never more to harm the flowers you may love , will you go back to your own people and leave me and my Spirits to work our will on all the other flowers that bloom ?
The earth is broad , and we can find them in any land , then why should you care what happens to their kindred if your own are safe ?
Will you do this ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
answered Violet sadly , `` do you not know that beneath the flowers ' bright leaves there beats a little heart that loves and sorrows like our own ?
And can I , heedless of their beauty , doom them to pain and grief , that I might save my own dear blossoms from the cruel foes to which I leave them ?
Ah no !
sooner would I dwell for ever in your darkest cell , than lose the love of those warm , trusting hearts . ''
`` Then listen , '' said the King , `` to the task I give you .
You shall raise up for me a palace fairer than this , and if you can work that miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown .
And now go forth , and begin your task ; my Spirits shall not harm you , and I will wait till it is done before I blight another flower . ''
Then out into the gardens went Violet with a heavy heart ; for she had toiled so long , her strength was nearly gone .
But the flowers whispered their gratitude , and folded their leaves as if they blessed her ; and when she saw the garden filled with loving friends , who strove to cheer and thank her for her care , courage and strength returned ; and raising up thick clouds of mist , that hid her from the wondering flowers , alone and trustingly she began her work .
As time went by , the Frost-King feared the task had been too hard for the Fairy ; sounds were heard behind the walls of mist , bright shadows seen to pass within , but the little voice was never heard .
Meanwhile the golden light had faded from the garden , the flowers bowed their heads , and all was dark and cold as when the gentle Fairy came .
And to the stern King his home seemed more desolate and sad ; for he missed the warm light , the happy flowers , and , more than all , the gay voice and bright face of little Violet .
So he wandered through his dreary palace , wondering how he had been content to live before without sunlight and love .
And little Violet was mourned as dead in Fairy-Land , and many tears were shed , for the gentle Fairy was beloved by all , from the Queen down to the humblest flower .
Sadly they watched over every bird and blossom which she had loved , and strove to be like her in kindly words and deeds .
They wore cypress wreaths , and spoke of her as one whom they should never see again .
Thus they dwelt in deepest sorrow , till one day there came to them an unknown messenger , wrapped in a dark mantle , who looked with wondering eyes on the bright palace , and flower-crowned elves , who kindly welcomed him , and brought fresh dew and rosy fruit to refresh the weary stranger .
Then he told them that he came from the Frost-King , who begged the Queen and all her subjects to come and see the palace little Violet had built ; for the veil of mist would soon be withdrawn , and as she could not make a fairer home than the ice-castle , the King wished her kindred near to comfort and to bear her home .
And while the Elves wept , he told them how patiently she had toiled , how her fadeless love had made the dark cell bright and beautiful .
These and many other things he told them ; for little Violet had won the love of many of the Frost-Spirits , and even when they killed the flowers she had toiled so hard to bring to life and beauty , she spoke gentle words to them , and sought to teach them how beautiful is love .
Long stayed the messenger , and deeper grew his wonder that the Fairy could have left so fair a home , to toil in the dreary palace of his cruel master , and suffer cold and weariness , to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing .
When the Elves had promised they would come , he bade farewell to happy Fairy-Land , and flew sadly home .
At last the time arrived , and out in his barren garden , under a canopy of dark clouds , sat the Frost-King before the misty wall , behind which were heard low , sweet sounds , as of rustling trees and warbling birds .
Soon through the air came many-colored troops of Elves .
First the Queen , known by the silver lilies on her snowy robe and the bright crown in her hair , beside whom flew a band of Elves in crimson and gold , making sweet music on their flower-trumpets , while all around , with smiling faces and bright eyes , fluttered her loving subjects .
On they came , like a flock of brilliant butterflies , their shining wings and many-colored garments sparkling in the dim air ; and soon the leafless trees were gay with living flowers , and their sweet voices filled the gardens with music .
Like his subjects , the King looked on the lovely Elves , and no longer wondered that little Violet wept and longed for her home .
Darker and more desolate seemed his stately home , and when the Fairies asked for flowers , he felt ashamed that he had none to give them .
At length a warm wind swept through the gardens , and the mist-clouds passed away , while in silent wonder looked the Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them .
Far as eye could reach were tall green trees whose drooping boughs made graceful arches , through which the golden light shone softly , making bright shadows on the deep green moss below , where the fairest flowers waved in the cool wind , and sang , in their low , sweet voices , how beautiful is Love .
Flowering vines folded their soft leaves around the trees , making green pillars of their rough trunks .
Fountains threw their bright waters to the roof , and flocks of silver-winged birds flew singing among the flowers , or brooded lovingly above their nests .
Doves with gentle eyes cooed among the green leaves , snow-white clouds floated in the sunny shy , and the golden light , brighter than before , shone softly down .
Soon through the long aisles came Violet , flowers and green leaves rustling as she passed .
On she went to the Frost-King's throne , bearing two crowns , one of sparkling icicles , the other of pure white lilies , and kneeling before him , said , -- `` My task is done , and , thanks to the Spirits of earth and air , I have made as fair a home as Elfin hands can form .
You must now decide .
Will you be King of Flower-Land , and own my gentle kindred for your loving friends ?
Will you possess unfading peace and joy , and the grateful love of all the green earth's fragrant children ?
Then take this crown of flowers .
But if you can find no pleasure here , go back to your own cold home , and dwell in solitude and darkness , where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter .
`` Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the happy earth , and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who would so gladly love and reverence you .
Then take this glittering crown , hard and cold as your own heart will be , if you will shut out all that is bright and beautiful .
Both are before you .
Choose . ''
The old King looked at the little Fairy , and saw how lovingly the bright shadows gathered round her , as if to shield her from every harm ; the timid birds nestled in her bosom , and the flowers grew fairer as she looked upon them ; while her gentle friends , with tears in their bright eyes , folded their hands beseechingly , and smiled on her .
Kind thought came thronging to his mind , and he turned to look at the two palaces .
Violet's , so fair and beautiful , with its rustling trees , calm , sunny skies , and happy birds and flowers , all created by her patient love and care .
His own , so cold and dark and dreary , his empty gardens where no flowers could bloom , no green trees dwell , or gay birds sing , all desolate and dim ; -- and while he gazed , his own Spirits , casting off their dark mantles , knelt before him and besought him not to send them forth to blight the things the gentle Fairies loved so much .
`` We have served you long and faithfully , '' said they , `` give us now our freedom , that we may learn to be beloved by the sweet flowers we have harmed so long .
Grant the little Fairy's prayer ; and let her go back to her own dear home .
She has taught us that Love is mightier than Fear .
Choose the Flower crown , and we will be the truest subjects you have ever had . ''
Then , amid a burst of wild , sweet music , the Frost-King placed the Flower crown on his head , and knelt to little Violet ; while far and near , over the broad green earth , sounded the voices of flowers , singing their thanks to the gentle Fairy , and the summer wind was laden with perfumes , which they sent as tokens of their gratitude ; and wherever she went , old trees bent down to fold their slender branches round her , flowers laid their soft faces against her own , and whispered blessings ; even the humble moss bent over the little feet , and kissed them as they passed .
The old King , surrounded by the happy Fairies , sat in Violet's lovely home , and watched his icy castle melt away beneath the bright sunlight ; while his Spirits , cold and gloomy no longer , danced with the Elves , and waited on their King with loving eagerness .
Brighter grew the golden light , gayer sang the birds , and the harmonious voices of grateful flowers , sounding over the earth , carried new joy to all their gentle kindred .
Brighter shone the golden shadows ; On the cool wind softly came The low , sweet tones of happy flowers , Singing little Violet's name .
` Mong the green trees was it whispered , And the bright waves bore it on To the lonely forest flowers , Where the glad news had not gone .
Thus the Frost-King lost his kingdom , And his power to harm and blight .
Violet conquered , and his cold heart Warmed with music , love , and light ; And his fair home , once so dreary , Gay with lovely Elves and flowers , Brought a joy that never faded Through the long bright summer hours .
Thus , by Violet's magic power , All dark shadows passed away , And o'er the home of happy flowers The golden light for ever lay .
Thus the Fairy mission ended , And all Flower-Land was taught The `` Power of Love , '' by gentle deeds That little Violet wrought .
As Sunny Lock ceased , another little Elf came forward ; and this was the tale `` Silver Wing '' told .
As Sunny Lock ceased , another little Elf came forward ; and this was the tale `` Silver Wing '' told .
