Salome looked out of the kitchen window , and a pucker of distress appeared on her smooth forehead .
`` Dear , dear , what has Lionel Hezekiah been doing now ? ''
she murmured anxiously .
Involuntarily she reached out for her crutch ; but it was a little beyond her reach , having fallen on the floor , and without it Salome could not move a step .
`` Well , anyway , Judith is bringing him in as fast as she can , '' she reflected .
`` He must have been up to something terrible this time ; for she looks very cross , and she never walks like that unless she is angry clear through .
Dear me , I am sometimes tempted to think that Judith and I made a mistake in adopting the child .
I suppose two old maids don't know much about bringing up a boy properly .
But he is NOT a bad child , and it really seems to me that there must be some way of making him behave better if we only knew what it was . ''
Salome's monologue was cut short by the entrance of her sister Judith , holding Lionel Hezekiah by his chubby wrist with a determined grip .
Judith Marsh was ten years older than Salome , and the two women were as different in appearance as night and day .
Salome , in spite of her thirty-five years , looked almost girlish .
She was small and pink and flower-like , with little rings of pale golden hair clustering all over her head in a most unspinster-like fashion , and her eyes were big and blue , and mild as a dove's .
Her face was perhaps a weak one , but it was very sweet and appealing .
Judith Marsh was tall and dark , with a plain , tragic face and iron-gray hair .
Her eyes were black and sombre , and every feature bespoke unyielding will and determination .
Just now she looked , as Salome had said , `` angry clear through , '' and the baleful glances she cast on the small mortal she held would have withered a more hardened criminal than six happy-go-lucky years had made of Lionel Hezekiah .
Lionel Hezekiah , whatever his shortcomings , did not look bad .
Indeed , he was as engaging an urchin as ever beamed out on a jolly good world through a pair of big , velvet-brown eyes .
He was chubby and firm-limbed , with a mop of beautiful golden curls , which were the despair of his heart and the pride and joy of Salome's ; and his round face was usually a lurking-place for dimples and smiles and sunshine .
But just now Lionel Hezekiah was under a blight ; he had been caught red-handed in guilt , and was feeling much ashamed of himself .
He hung his head and squirmed his toes under the mournful reproach in Salome's eyes .
When Salome looked at him like that , Lionel Hezekiah always felt that he was paying more for his fun than it was worth .
`` What do you suppose I caught him doing this time ? ''
demanded Judith .
`` I -- I don't know , '' faltered Salome .
`` Firing -- at -- a -- mark -- on -- the -- henhouse -- door -- with -- new-laid -- eggs , '' said Judith with measured distinctness .
`` He has broken every egg that was laid to-day except three .
And as for the state of that henhouse door -- '' Judith paused , with an indignant gesture meant to convey that the state of the henhouse door must be left to Salome's imagination , since the English language was not capable of depicting it .
`` O Lionel Hezekiah , why will you do such things ? ''
said Salome miserably .
`` I -- didn't know it was wrong , '' said Lionel Hezekiah , bursting into prompt tears .
`` I -- I thought it would be bully fun .
Seems's if everything what's fun's wrong . ''
Salome's heart was not proof against tears , as Lionel Hezekiah very well knew .
She put her arm about the sobbing culprit , and drew him to her side .
`` He didn't know it was wrong , '' she said defiantly to Judith .
`` He's got to be taught , then , '' was Judith's retort .
`` No , you needn't try to beg him off , Salome .
He shall go right to bed without supper , and stay there till to-morrow morning . ''
`` Oh !
not without his supper , '' entreated Salome .
`` You -- you won't improve the child's morals by injuring his stomach , Judith . ''
`` Without his supper , I say , '' repeated Judith inexorably .
`` Lionel Hezekiah , go up-stairs to the south room , and go to bed at once . ''
Lionel Hezekiah went up-stairs , and went to bed at once .
He was never sulky or disobedient .
Salome listened to him as he stumped patiently up-stairs with a sob at every step , and her own eyes filled with tears .
`` Now don't for pity's sake go crying , Salome , '' said Judith irritably .
`` I think I've let him off very easily .
He is enough to try the patience of a saint , and I never was that , '' she added with entire truth .
`` But he isn't bad , '' pleaded Salome .
`` You know he never does anything the second time after he has been told it was wrong , never . ''
`` What good does that do when he is certain to do something new and twice as bad ?
I never saw anything like him for originating ideas of mischief .
Just look at what he has done in the past fortnight -- in one fortnight , Salome .
He brought in a live snake , and nearly frightened you into fits ; he drank up a bottle of liniment , and almost poisoned himself ; he took three toads to bed with him ; he climbed into the henhouse loft , and fell through on a hen and killed her ; he painted his face all over with your water-colours ; and now comes THIS exploit .
And eggs at twenty-eight cents a dozen !
I tell you , Salome , Lionel Hezekiah is an expensive luxury . ''
`` But we couldn't do without him , '' protested Salome . ''
I could .
But as you can't , or think you can't , we'll have to keep him , I suppose .
But the only way to secure any peace of mind for ourselves , as far as I can see , is to tether him in the yard , and hire somebody to watch him . ''
`` There must be some way of managing him , '' said Salome desperately .
She thought Judith was in earnest about the tethering .
Judith was generally so terribly in earnest in all she said .
`` Perhaps it is because he has no other employment that he invents so many unheard-of things .
If he had anything to occupy himself with -- perhaps if we sent him to school -- '' `` He's too young to go to school .
Father always said that no child should go to school until it was seven , and I don't mean Lionel Hezekiah shall .
Well , I 'm going to take a pail of hot water and a brush , and see what I can do to that henhouse door .
I've got my afternoon's work cut out for me . ''
Judith stood Salome's crutch up beside her , and departed to purify the henhouse door .
As soon as she was safely out of the way , Salome took her crutch , and limped slowly and painfully to the foot of the stairs .
She could not go up and comfort Lionel Hezekiah as she yearned to do , which was the reason Judith had sent him up-stairs .
Salome had not been up-stairs for fifteen years .
Neither did she dare to call him out on the landing , lest Judith return .
Besides , of course he must be punished ; he had been very naughty .
`` But I wish I could smuggle a bit of supper up to him , '' she mused , sitting down on the lowest step and listening .
`` I don't hear a sound .
I suppose he has cried himself to sleep , poor , dear baby .
He certainly is dreadfully mischievous ; but it seems to me that it shows an investigating turn of mind , and if it could only be directed into the proper channels -- I wish Judith would let me have a talk with Mr. Leonard about Lionel Hezekiah .
I wish Judith didn't hate ministers so .
I don't mind so much her not letting me go to church , because I 'm so lame that it would be painful anyhow ; but I 'd like to talk with Mr. Leonard now and then about some things .
I can never believe that Judith and father were right ; I am sure they were not .
There is a God , and I 'm afraid it's terribly wicked not to go to church .
But there , nothing short of a miracle would convince Judith ; so there is no use in thinking about it .
Yes , Lionel Hezekiah must have gone to sleep . ''
Salome pictured him so , with his long , curling lashes brushing his rosy , tear-stained cheek and his chubby fists clasped tightly over his breast as was his habit ; her heart grew warm and thrilling with the maternity the picture provoked .
A year previously Lionel Hezekiah's parents , Abner and Martha Smith , had died , leaving a houseful of children and very little else .
The children were adopted into various Carmody families , and Salome Marsh had amazed Judith by asking to be allowed to take the five-year-old `` baby . ''
At first Judith had laughed at the idea ; but , when she found that Salome was in earnest , she yielded .
Judith always gave Salome her own way except on one point .
`` If you want the child , I suppose you must have him , '' she said finally .
`` I wish he had a civilized name , though .
Hezekiah is bad , and Lionel is worse ; but the two in combination , and tacked on to Smith at that , is something that only Martha Smith could have invented .
Her judgment was the same clear through , from selecting husbands to names . ''
So Lionel Hezekiah came into Judith's home and Salome's heart .
The latter was permitted to love him all she pleased , but Judith overlooked his training with a critical eye .
Possibly it was just as well , for Salome might otherwise have ruined him with indulgence .
Salome , who always adopted Judith's opinions , no matter how ill they fitted her , deferred to the former's decrees meekly , and suffered far more than Lionel Hezekiah when he was punished .
She sat on the stairs until she fell asleep herself , her head pillowed on her arm .
Judith found her there when she came in , severe and triumphant , from her bout with the henhouse door .
Her face softened into marvelous tenderness as she looked at Salome .
`` She's nothing but a child herself in spite of her age , '' she thought pityingly .
`` A child that's had her whole life thwarted and spoiled through no fault of her own .
And yet folks say there is a God who is kind and good !
If there is a God , he is a cruel , jealous tyrant , and I hate Him ! ''
Judith's eyes were bitter and vindictive .
She thought she had many grievances against the great Power that rules the universe , but the most intense was Salome's helplessness -- Salome , who fifteen years before had been the brightest , happiest of maidens , light of heart and foot , bubbling over with harmless , sparkling mirth and life .
If Salome could only walk like other women , Judith told herself that she would not hate the great tyrannical Power .
Lionel Hezekiah was subdued and angelic for four days after that affair of the henhouse door .
Then he broke out in a new place .
One afternoon he came in sobbing , with his golden curls full of burrs .
Judith was not in , but Salome dropped her crochet-work and gazed at him in dismay .
`` Oh , Lionel Hezekiah , what have you gone and done now ? ''
`` I -- I just stuck the burrs in 'cause I was playing I was a heathen chief , '' sobbed Lionel Hezekiah .
`` It was great fun while it lasted ; but , when I tried to take them out , it hurt awful . ''
Neither Salome nor Lionel Hezekiah ever forgot the harrowing hour that followed .
With the aid of comb and scissors , Salome eventually got the burrs out of Lionel Hezekiah's crop of curls .
It would be impossible to decide which of them suffered more in the process .
Salome cried as hard as Lionel Hezekiah did , and every snip of the scissors or tug at the silken floss cut into her heart .
She was almost exhausted when the performance was over ; but she took the tired Lionel Hezekiah on her knee , and laid her wet cheek against his shining head .
`` Oh , Lionel Hezekiah , what does make you get into mischief so constantly ? ''
she sighed .
Lionel Hezekiah frowned reflectively .
`` I don't know , '' he finally announced , `` unless it's because you don't send me to Sunday school . ''
Salome started as if an electric shock had passed through her frail body .
`` Why , Lionel Hezekiah , '' she stammered , `` what put such and idea into your head ? ''
`` Well , all the other boys go , '' said Lionel Hezekiah defiantly ; `` and they 're all better 'n me ; so I guess that must be the reason .
Teddy Markham says that all little boys should go to Sunday school , and that if they don't they 're sure to go to the bad place .
I don't see how you can ` spect me to behave well when you won't send me to Sunday school .
`` Would you like to go ? ''
asked Salome , almost in a whisper .
`` I 'd like it bully , '' said Lionel Hezekiah frankly and succinctly .
`` Oh , don't use such dreadful words , '' sighed Salome helplessly .
`` I'll see what can be done .
Perhaps you can go .
I'll ask your Aunt Judith . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Judith won't let me go , '' said Lionel Hezekiah despondingly .
`` Aunt Judith doesn't believe there is any God or any bad place .
Teddy Markham says she doesn't .
He says she's an awful wicked woman 'cause she never goes to church .
So you must be wicked too , Aunt Salome , 'cause you never go .
Why don't you ? ''
`` Your -- your Aunt Judith won't let me go , '' faltered Salome , more perplexed than she had ever been before in her life .
`` Well , it doesn't seem to me that you have much fun on Sundays , '' remarked Lionel Hezekiah ponderingly .
`` I 'd have more if I was you .
But I s ` pose you can't 'cause you 're ladies .
I 'm glad I 'm a man .
Look at Abel Blair , what splendid times he has on Sundays .
He never goes to church , but he goes fishing , and has cock-fights , and gets drunk .
When I grow up , I 'm going to do that on Sundays too , since I won't be going to church .
I don't want to go to church , but I 'd like to go to Sunday school . ''
Salome listened in agony .
Every word of Lionel Hezekiah's stung her conscience unbearably .
So this was the result of her weak yielding to Judith ; this innocent child looked upon her as a wicked woman , and , worse still , regarded old , depraved Abel Blair as a model to be imitated .
Oh !
was it too late to undo the evil ?
When Judith returned , Salome blurted out the whole story .
`` Lionel Hezekiah must go to Sunday school , '' she concluded appealingly .
Judith's face hardened until it was as if cut in stone .
`` No , he shall not , '' she said stubbornly .
`` No one living in my household shall ever go to church or Sunday school .
I gave in to you when you wanted to teach him to say his prayers , though I knew it was only foolish superstition , but I sha n't yield another inch .
You know exactly how I feel on this subject , Salome ; I believe just as father did .
You know he hated churches and churchgoing .
And was there ever a better , kinder , more lovable man ? ''
`` Mother believed in God ; mother always went to church , '' pleaded Salome .
`` Mother was weak and superstitious , just as you are , '' retorted Judith inflexibly .
`` I tell you , Salome , I don't believe there is a God .
But , if there is , He is cruel and unjust , and I hate Him . ''
`` Judith ! ''
gasped Salome , aghast at the impiety .
She half expected to see her sister struck dead at her feet .
`` Don't ` Judith ' me ! ''
said Judith passionately , in the strange anger that any discussion of the subject always roused in her .
`` I mean every word I say .
Before you got lame I didn't feel much about it one way or another ; I 'd just as soon have gone with mother as with father .
But , when you were struck down like that , I knew father was right . ''
For a moment Salome quailed .
She felt that she could not , dare not , stand out against Judith .
For her own sake she could not have done so , but the thought of Lionel Hezekiah nerved her to desperation .
She struck her thin , bleached little hands wildly together .
`` Judith , I 'm going to church to-morrow , '' she cried .
`` I tell you I am , I won't set Lionel Hezekiah a bad example one day longer .
I'll not take him ; I won't go against you in that , for it is your bounty feeds and clothes him ; but I 'm going myself . ''
`` If you do , Salome Marsh , I'll never forgive you , '' said Judith , her harsh face dark with anger ; and then , not trusting herself to discuss the subject any longer , she went out .
Salome dissolved into her ready tears , and cried most of the night .
But her resolution did not fail .
Go to church she would , for that dear baby's sake .
Judith would not speak to her at breakfast , and this almost broke Salome's heart ; but she dared not yield .
After breakfast , she limped painfully into her room , and still more painfully dressed herself .
When she was ready , she took a little old worn Bible out of her box .
It had been her mother's , and Salome read a chapter in it every night , although she never dared to let Judith see her doing it .
When she limped out into the kitchen , Judith looked up with a hard face .
A flame of sullen anger glowed in her dark eyes , and she went into the sitting-room and shut the door , as if by that act she were shutting her sister for evermore out of her heart and life .
Salome , strung up to the last pitch of nervous tension , felt intuitively the significance of that closed door .
For a moment she wavered -- oh , she could not go against Judith !
She was all but turning back to her room when Lionel Hezekiah came running in , and paused to look at her admiringly .
`` You look just bully , Aunt Salome , '' he said .
`` Where are you going ? ''
`` Don't use that word , Lionel Hezekiah , '' pleaded Salome .
`` I 'm going to church . ''
`` Take me with you , '' said Lionel Hezekiah promptly .
Salome shook her head .
`` I can't , dear .
Your Aunt Judith wouldn't like it .
Perhaps she will let you go after a while .
Now do be a good boy while I am away , won't you ?
Don't do any naughty things . ''
`` I won't do them if I know they 're naughty , '' conceded Lionel Hezekiah .
`` But that's just the trouble ; I don't know what's naughty and what ain't .
Prob ` ly if I went to Sunday school I 'd find out . ''
Salome limped out of the yard and down the lane bordered by its asters and goldenrod .
Fortunately the church was just outside the lane , across the main road ; but Salome found it hard to cover even that short distance .
She felt almost exhausted when she reached the church and toiled painfully up the aisle to her mother's old pew .
She laid her crutch on the seat , and sank into the corner by the window with a sigh of relief .
She had elected to come early so that she might get there before the rest of the people .
The church was as yet empty , save for a class of Sunday school children and their teacher in a remote corner , who paused midway in their lesson to stare with amazement at the astonishing sigh of Salome Marsh limping into church .
The big building , shadowy from the great elms around it , was very still .
A faint murmur came from the closed room behind the pulpit where the rest of the Sunday school was assembled .
In front of the pulpit was a stand bearing tall white geraniums in luxuriant blossom .
The light fell through the stained-glass window in a soft tangle of hues upon the floor .
Salome felt a sense of peace and happiness fill her heart .
Even Judith's anger lost its importance .
She leaned her head against the window-sill , and gave herself up to the flood of tender old recollections that swept over her .
Memory went back to the years of her childhood when she had sat in this pew every Sunday with her mother .
Judith had come then , too , always seeming grown up to Salome by reason of her ten years ' seniority .
Her tall , dark , reserved father never came .
Salome knew that the Carmody people called him an infidel , and looked upon him as a very wicked man .
But he had not been wicked ; he had been good and kind in his own odd way .
The gently little mother had died when Salome was ten years old , but so loving and tender was Judith's care that the child did not miss anything out of her life .
Judith Marsh loved her little sister with an intensity that was maternal .
She herself was a plain , repellent girl , liked by few , sought after by no man ; but she was determined that Salome should have everything that she had missed -- admiration , friendship , love .
She would have a vicarious youth in Salome's .
All went according to Judith's planning until Salome was eighteen , and then trouble after trouble came .
Their father , whom Judith had understood and passionately loved , died ; Salome's young lover was killed in a railroad accident ; and finally Salome herself developed symptoms of the hip-disease which , springing from a trifling injury , eventually left her a cripple .
Everything possible was done for her .
Judith , falling heir to a snug little fortune by the death of the old aunt for whom she was named , spared nothing to obtain the best medical skill , and in vain .
One and all , the great doctors failed .
Judith had borne her father's death bravely enough in spite of her agony of grief ; she had watched her sister pining and fading with the pain of her broken heart without growing bitter ; but when she knew at last that Salome would never walk again save as she hobbled painfully about on her crutch , the smouldering revolt in her soul broke its bounds , and overflowed her nature in a passionate rebellion against the Being who had sent , or had failed to prevent , these calamities .
She did not rave or denounce wildly ; that was not Judith's way ; but she never went to church again , and it soon became an accepted fact in Carmody that Judith Marsh was as rank an infidel as her father had been before her ; nay , worse , since she would not even allow Salome to go to church , and shut the door in the minister's face when he went to see her .
`` I should have stood out against her for conscience ' sake , '' reflected Salome in her pew self-reproachfully .
`` But , O dear , I 'm afraid she'll never forgive me , and how can I live if she doesn't ?
But I must endure it for Lionel Hezekiah's sake ; my weakness has perhaps done him great harm already .
They say that what a child learns in the first seven years never leaves him ; so Lionel Hezekiah has only another year to get set right about these things .
Oh , if I've left it till too late ! ''
When the people began to come in , Salome felt painfully the curious glances directed at her .
Look where she would , she met them , unless she looked out of the window ; so out of the window she did look unswervingly , her delicate little face burning crimson with self-consciousness .
She could see her home and its back yard plainly , with Lionel Hezekiah making mud-pies joyfully in the corner .
Presently she saw Judith come out of the house and stride away to the pine wood behind it .
Judith always betook herself to the pines in time of mental stress and strain .
Salome could see the sunlight shining on Lionel Hezekiah's bare head as he mixed his pies .
In the pleasure of watching him she forgot where she was and the curious eyes turned on her .
Suddenly Lionel Hezekiah ceased concocting pies , and betook himself to the corner of the summer kitchen , where he proceeded to climb up to the top of the storm-fence and from there to mount the sloping kitchen roof .
Salome clasped her hands in agony .
What if the child should fall ?
Oh !
why had Judith gone away and left him alone ?
What if -- what if -- and then , while her brain with lightning-like rapidity pictured forth a dozen possible catastrophes , something really did happen .
Lionel Hezekiah slipped , sprawled wildly , slid down , and fell off the roof , in a bewildering whirl of arms and legs , plump into the big rain-water hogshead under the spout , which was generally full to the brim with rain-water , a hogshead big and deep enough to swallow up half a dozen small boys who went climbing kitchen roofs on a Sunday .
Then something took place that is talked of in Carmody to this day , and even fiercely wrangled over , so many and conflicting are the opinions on the subject .
Salome Marsh , who had not walked a step without assistance for fifteen years , suddenly sprang to her feet with a shriek , ran down the aisle , and out of the door !
Every man , woman , and child in the Carmody church followed her , even to the minister , who had just announced his text .
When they got out , Salome was already half-way up her lane , running wildly .
In her heart was room for but one agonized thought .
Would Lionel Hezekiah be drowned before she reached him ?
She opened the gate of the yard , and panted across it just as a tall , grim-faced woman came around the corner of the house and stood rooted to the ground in astonishment at the sight that met her eyes .
But Salome saw nobody .
She flung herself against the hogshead and looked in , sick with terror at what she might see .
What she did see was Lionel Hezekiah sitting on the bottom of the hogshead in water that came only to his waist .
He was looking rather dazed and bewildered , but was apparently quite uninjured .
The yard was full of people , but nobody had as yet said a word ; awe and wonder held everybody in spellbound silence .
Judith was the first to speak .
She pushed through the crowd to Salome .
Her face was blanched to a deadly whiteness ; and her eyes , as Mrs. William Blair afterwards declared , were enough to give a body the creeps .
`` Salome , '' she said in a high , shrill , unnatural voice , `` where is your crutch ? ''
Salome came to herself at the question .
For the first time , she realized that she had walked , nay , run , all that distance from the church alone and unaided .
She turned pale , swayed , and would have fallen if Judith had not caught her .
Old Dr. Blair came forward briskly .
`` Carry her in , '' he said , `` and don't all of you come crowding in , either .
She wants quiet and rest for a spell . ''
Most of the people obediently returned to the church , their sudden loosened tongues clattering in voluble excitement .
A few women assisted Judith to carry Salome in and lay her on the kitchen lounge , followed by the doctor and the dripping Lionel Hezekiah , whom the minister had lifted out of the hogshead and to whom nobody now paid the slightest attention .
Salome faltered out her story , and her hearers listened with varying emotions .
`` It's a miracle , '' said Sam Lawson in an awed voice .
Dr. Blair shrugged his shoulders .
`` There is no miracle about it , '' he said bluntly .
`` It's all perfectly natural .
The disease in the hip has evidently been quite well for a long time ; Nature does sometimes work cures like that when she is let alone .
The trouble was that the muscles were paralyzed by long disuse .
That paralysis was overcome by the force of a strong and instinctive effort .
Salome , get up and walk across the kitchen . ''
Salome obeyed .
She walked across the kitchen and back , slowly , stiffly , falteringly , now that the stimulus of frantic fear was spent ; but still she walked .
The doctor nodded his satisfaction .
`` Keep that up every day .
Walk as much as you can without tiring yourself , and you'll soon be as spry as ever .
No more need of crutches for you , but there's no miracle in the case . ''
Judith Marsh turned to him .
She had not spoken a word since her question concerning Salome's crutch .
Now she said passionately : `` It WAS a miracle .
God has worked it to prove His existence for me , and I accept the proof . ''
The old doctor shrugged his shoulders again .
Being a wise man , he knew when to hold his tongue .
`` Well , put Salome to bed , and let her sleep the rest of the day .
She's worn out .
And for pity's sake let some one take that poor child and put some dry clothes on him before he catches his death of cold . ''
That evening , as Salome Marsh lay in her bed in a glory of sunset light , her heart filled with unutterable gratitude and happiness , Judith came into the room .
She wore her best hat and dress , and she held Lionel Hezekiah by the hand .
Lionel Hezekiah's beaming face was scrubbed clean , and his curls fell in beautiful sleekness over the lace collar of his velvet suit .
`` How do you feel now , Salome ? ''
asked Judith gently .
`` Better .
I've had a lovely sleep .
But where are you going , Judith ? ''
`` I am going to church , '' said Judith firmly , `` and I am going to take Lionel Hezekiah with me . ''
