Once , upon a time there was a man and his wife who had two children , a boy and a girl .
The wife died , and the man married again .
His new wife had an only daughter , who was both ugly and untidy , whereas her stepdaughter was a beautiful girl , and was known as Maiden Bright-eye .
Her stepmother was very cruel to her on this account ; she had always to do the hardest work , and got very little to eat , and no attention paid to her ; but to her own daughter she was all that was good .
She was spared from all the hardest of the housework , and had always the prettiest clothes to wear .
Maiden Bright-eye had also to watch the sheep , but of course it would never do to let her go idle and enjoy herself too much at this work , so she had to pull heather while she was out on the moors with them .
Her stepmother gave her pancakes to take with her for her dinner , but she had mixed the flour with ashes , and made them just as bad as she could .
The little girl came out on the moor and began to pull heather on the side of a little mound , but next minute a little fellow with a red cap on his head popped up out of the mound and said : ` Who's that pulling the roof off my house ? '
` Oh , it's me , a poor little girl , ' said she ; ` my mother sent me out here , and told me to pull heather .
If you will be good to me I will give you a bit of my dinner . '
The little fellow was quite willing , and she gave him the biggest share of her pancakes .
They were not particularly good , but when one is hungry anything tastes well .
After he had got them all eaten he said to her : ` Now , I shall give you three wishes , for you are a very nice little girl ; but I will choose the wishes for you .
You are beautiful , and much more beautiful shall you be ; yes , so lovely that there will not be your like in the world .
The next wish shall be that every time you open your mouth a gold coin shall fall out of it , and your voice shall be like the most beautiful music .
The third wish shall be that you may be married to the young king , and become the queen of the country .
At the same time I shall give you a cap , which you must carefully keep , for it can save you , if you ever are in danger of your life , if you just put it on your head .
Maiden Bright-eye thanked the little bergman ever so often , and drove home her sheep in the evening .
By that time she had grown so beautiful that her people could scarcely recognise her .
Her stepmother asked her how it had come about that she had grown so beautiful .
She told the whole story -- for she always told the truth -- that a little man had come to her out on the moor and had given her all this beauty .
She did not tell , however , that she had given him a share of her dinner .
The stepmother thought to herself , ` If one can become so beautiful by going out there , my own daughter shall also be sent , for she can well stand being made a little prettier . '
Next morning she baked for her the finest cakes , and dressed her prettily to go out with the sheep .
But she was afraid to go away there without having a stick to defend herself with if anything should come near her .
She was not very much inclined for pulling the heather , as she never was in the habit of doing any work , but she was only a minute or so at it when up came the same little fellow with the red cap , and said : ` Who's that pulling the roof off my house ? '
` What's that to you ? '
said she .
` Well , if you will give me a bit of your dinner I won't do you any mischief , ' said he . '
I will give you something else in place of my dinner , ' said she . '
I can easily eat it myself ; but if you will have something you can have a whack of my stick , ' and with that she raised it in the air and struck the bergman over the head with it .
` What a wicked little girl you are ! '
said he ; ` but you shall be none the better of this .
I shall give you three wishes , and choose them for you .
First , I shall say , `` Ugly are you , but you shall become so ugly that there will not be an uglier one on earth . ''
Next I shall wish that every time you open your mouth a big toad may fall out of it , and your voice shall be like the roaring of a bull .
In the third place I shall wish for you a violent death . '
The girl went home in the evening , and when her mother saw her she was as vexed as she could be , and with good reason , too ; but it was still worse when she saw the toads fall out of her mouth and heard her voice .
Now we must hear something about the stepson .
He had gone out into the world to look about him , and took service in the king's palace .
About this time he got permission to go home and see his sister , and when he saw how lovely and beautiful she was , he was so pleased and delighted that when he came back to the king's palace everyone there wanted to know what he was always so happy about .
He told them that it was because he had such a lovely sister at home .
At last it came to the ears of the king what the brother said about his sister , and , besides that , the report of her beauty spread far and wide , so that the youth was summoned before the king , who asked him if everything was true that was told about the girl .
He said it was quite true , for he had seen her beauty with his own eyes , and had heard with his own ears how sweetly she could sing and what a lovely voice she had .
The king then took a great desire for her , and ordered her brother to go home and bring her back with him , for he trusted no one better to accomplish that errand .
He got a ship , and everything else that he required , and sailed home for his sister .
As soon as the stepmother heard what his errand was she at once said to herself , ` This will never come about if I can do anything to hinder it .
She must not be allowed to come to such honour . '
She then got a dress made for her own daughter , like the finest robe for a queen , and she had a mask prepared and put upon her face , so that she looked quite pretty , and gave her strict orders not to take it off until the king had promised to wed her .
The brother now set sail with his two sisters , for the stepmother pretended that the ugly one wanted to see the other a bit on her way .
But when they got out to sea , and Maiden Bright-eye came up on deck , the sister did as her mother had instructed her -- she gave her a push and made her fall into the water .
When the brother learned what had happened he was greatly distressed , and did not know what to do .
He could not bring himself to tell the truth about what had happened , nor did he expect that the king would believe it .
In the long run he decided to hold on his way , and let things go as they liked .
What he had expected happened -- the king received his sister and wedded her at once , but repented it after the first night , as he could scarcely put down his foot in the morning for all the toads that were about the room , and when he saw her real face he was so enraged against the brother that he had him thrown into a pit full of serpents .
He was so angry , not merely because he had been deceived , but because he could not get rid of the ugly wretch that was now tied to him for life .
Now we shall hear a little about Maiden Bright-eye When she fell into the water she was fortunate enough to get the bergman's cap put on her head , for now she was in danger of her life , and she was at once transformed into a duck .
The duck swam away after the ship , and came to the king's palace on the next evening .
There it waddled up the drain , and so into the kitchen , where her little dog lay on the hearth-stone ; it could not bear to stay in the fine chambers along with the ugly sister , and had taken refuge down here .
The duck hopped up till it could talk to the dog .
` Good evening , ' it said .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' said the dog .
` Where is my brother ? '
` He is in the serpent-pit . '
` Where is my wicked sister ? '
` She is with the noble king . '
` Alas !
alas !
I am here this evening , and shall be for two evenings yet , and then I shall never come again . '
When it had said this the duck waddled off again .
Several of the servant girls heard the conversation , and were greatly surprised at it , and thought that it would be worth while to catch the bird next evening and see into the matter a little more closely .
They had heard it say that it would come again .
Next evening it appeared as it had said , and a great many were present to see it .
It came waddling in by the drain , and went up to the dog , which was lying on the hearth-stone .
` Good evening , ' it said .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' said the dog .
` Where is my brother ? '
` He is in the serpent-pit . '
` Where is my wicked sister ? '
` She is with the noble king . '
` Alas !
alas !
I am here this evening , and shall be for one evening yet , and then I shall never come again . '
After this it slipped out , and no one could get hold of it .
But the king's cook thought to himself , ' I shall see if I can't get hold of you to-morrow evening . '
On the third evening the duck again came waddling in by the drain , and up to the dog on the hearth-stone .
` Good evening , ' it said .
` Thanks , Maiden Bright-eye , ' said the dog .
` Where is my brother ? '
` He is in the serpent-pit . '
` Where is my wicked sister ? '
` She is with the noble king . '
` Alas !
alas !
now I shall never come again . '
With this it slipped out again , but in the meantime the cook had posted himself at the outer end of the drain with a net , which he threw over it as it came out .
In this way he caught it , and came in to the others with the most beautiful duck they had ever seen -- with so many golden feathers on it that everyone marvelled .
No one , however , knew what was to be done with it ; but after what they had heard they knew that there was something uncommon about it , so they took good care of it .
At this time the brother in the serpent-pit dreamed that his right sister had come swimming to the king's palace in the shape of a duck , and that she could not regain her own form until her beak was cut off .
He got this dream told to some one , so that the king at last came to hear of it , and had him taken up out of the pit and brought before him .
The king then asked him if he could produce to him his sister as beautiful as he had formerly described her .
The brother said he could if they would bring him the duck and a knife .
Both of them were brought to him , and he said , ' I wonder how you would look if I were to cut the point off your beak . '
With this he cut a piece off the beak , and there came a voice which said , ` Oh , oh , you cut my little finger ! '
Next moment Maiden Bright-eye stood there , as lovely and beautiful as he had seen her when he was home .
This was his sister now , he said ; and the whole story now came out of how the other had behaved to her .
The wicked sister was put into a barrel with spikes round it which was dragged off by six wild horses , and so she came to her end. : But the king was delighted with Maiden Bright-eye , and immediately made her his queen , while her brother became his prime minister .
The Merry Wives From the Danish There lay three houses in a row , in one of which there lived a tailor , in another a carpenter , and in the third a smith .
All three were married , and their wives were very good friends .
They often talked about how stupid their husbands were , but they could never agree as to which of them had the most stupid one ; each one stuck up for her own husband , and maintained that it was he .
The three wives went to church together every Sunday , and had a regular good gossip on the way , and when they were coming home from church they always turned into the tavern which lay by the wayside and drank half a pint together .
This was at the time when half a pint of brandy cost threepence , so that was just a penny from each of them .
But the brandy went up in price , and the taverner said that he must have fourpence for the half-pint .
They were greatly annoyed at this , for there were only the three of them to share it , and none of them was willing to pay the extra penny .
As they went home from the church that day they decided to wager with each other as to whose husband was the most stupid , and the one who , on the following Sunday , should be judged to have played her husband the greatest trick should thereafter go free from paying , and each of the two others would give twopence for their Sunday's half-pint .
Next day the tailor's wife said to her husband , ' I have some girls coming to-day to help to card my wool there is a great deal to do , and we must be very busy .
I am so annoyed that our watchdog is dead , for in the evening the young fellows will come about to get fun with the girls , and they will get nothing done .
If we had only had a fierce watchdog he would have kept them away . '
` Yes , ' said the man , ` that would have been a good thing . '
` Listen , good man , ' said the wife , ` you must just be the watchdog yourself , and scare the fellows away from the house . '
The husband was not very sure about this , although otherwise he was always ready to give in to her .
` Oh yes , you will see it will work all right , ' said the wife .
And so towards evening she got the tailor dressed up in a shaggy fur coat , tied a black woollen cloth round his head , and chained him up beside the dog's kennel . '
There he stood and barked and growled at everyone that moved in his neighbourhood .
The neighbour wives knew all about this , and were greatly amused at it .
On the day after this the carpenter had been out at work , and came home quite merry ; but as soon as he entered the house his wife clapped her hands together and cried , ` My dear , what makes you look like that ?
You are ill . '
The carpenter knew nothing about being ill ; he only thought that he wanted something to eat , so he sat down at the table and began his dinner .
His wife sat straight in front of him , with her hands folded , and shook her head , and looked at him with an anxious air .
` You are getting worse , my dear , ' she said ; ` you are quite pale now ; you have a serious illness about you ; I can see it by your looks . '
The husband now began to grow anxious , and thought that perhaps he was not quite well .
` No , indeed , ' said she ; ` it's high time that you were in bed . '
She then got him to lie down , and piled above him all the bedclothes she could find , and gave him various medicines , while he grew worse and worse .
` You will never get over it , ' said she ; ' I am afraid you are going to die . '
` Do you think so ? '
said the carpenter ; ' I can well believe it , for I am indeed very poorly . '
In a little while she said again , ` Ah , now I must part with you .
Here comes Death .
Now I must close your eyes . '
And she did so .
The carpenter believed everything that his wife said , and so he believed now that he was dead , and lay still and let her do as she pleased .
She got her neighbours summoned , and they helped to lay him in the coffin -- it was one of those he himself had made ; but his wife had bored holes in it to let him get some air .
She made a soft bed under him , and put a coverlet over him , and she folded his hands over his breast ; but instead of a flower or a psalm-book , she gave him a pint-bottle of brandy in his hands .
After he had lain for a little he took a little pull at this , and then another and another , and he thought this did him good , and soon he was sleeping sweetly , and dreaming that he was in heaven .
Meanwhile word had gone round the village that the carpenter was dead , and was to be buried next day .
It was now the turn of the smith's wife .
Her husband was lying sleeping off the effects of a drinking bout , so she pulled off all his clothes and made him black as coal from head to foot , and then let him sleep till far on in the day .
The funeral party had already met at the carpenter's , and marched oft towards the church with the coffin , when the smith's wife came rushing in to her husband .
` Gracious , man , ' said she , ` you are lying there yet ?
You are sleeping too long .
You know you are going to the funeral . '
The smith was quite confused ; he knew nothing about any funeral .
` It's our neighbour the carpenter , ' said his wife , ` who is to be buried to-day .
They are already half-way to church with him . '
` All right , ' said the smith , ` make haste to help me on with my black clothes . '
` What nonsense ! '
said his wife , ` you have them on already .
Be off with you now . '
The smith looked down at his person and saw that he was a good deal blacker than he usually was , so he caught up his hat and ran out after the funeral .
This was already close to the church , and the smith wanted to take part in carrying the coffin , like a good neighbour .
So he ran with all his might , and shouted after them , ` Hey !
wait a little ; let me get a hold of him ! '
The people turned round and saw the black figure coming , and thought it was the devil himself , who wanted to get hold of the carpenter , so they threw down the coffin and took to their heels .
The lid sprang off the coffin with the shock , and the carpenter woke up and looked out .
He remembered the whole affair ; he knew that he was dead and was going to be buried , and recognising the smith , he said to him , in a low voice , ` My good neighbour , if I hadn't been dead already , I should have laughed myself to death now to see you coming like this to my funeral . '
From that time forth the carpenter's wife drank free of expense every Sunday , for the others had to admit that she had fooled her husband the best .
