Johnny Chuck waddled down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck was very fat and rolly-poly .
His yellow brown coat fitted him so snugly that it seemed as if it must burst .
Johnny Chuck was feeling very happy -- very happy indeed , for you see Johnny Chuck long ago found the best thing in the world , which is contentment .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , looking down from the sky , smiled and smiled to see Johnny Chuck waddling down the Lone Little Path , for he loved the merry-hearted little fellow , as do all the little meadow people -- all but Reddy Fox , for Reddy Fox has not forgotten the surprise Johnny Chuck once gave him and how he called him a '' ` fraid cat . ''
Once in a while Johnny Chuck stopped to brush his coat carefully , for he is very particular about his appearance , is Johnny Chuck .
By and by he came to the old butternut tree down by the Smiling Pool .
He could see it a long time before he reached it , and up in the top of it he could see Blacky the Crow flapping his wings and cawing at the top of his voice .
`` There must be something going on , '' said Johnny Chuck to himself , and began to waddle faster .
He looked so very queer when he tried to hurry that jolly round , red Mr. Sun smiled more than ever .
When he was almost to the old butter-nut tree Johnny Chuck sat up very straight so that his head came just above the tall meadow grasses beside the Lone Little Path .
He could see the Merry Little Breezes dancing and racing under the old butternut tree and having such a good time !
And he could see the long ears of Peter Rabbit standing up straight above the tall meadow grasses .
One of the Merry Little Breezes spied Johnny Chuck .
`` Hurry up , Johnny Chuck ! ''
he shouted , and Johnny Chuck hurried .
When he reached the old butternut tree he was all out of breath .
He was puffing and blowing and he was so warm that he wished just for a minute , a single little minute , that he could swim like Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter , so that he could jump into the Smiling Pool and cool off .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello yourself , and see how you like it ! ''
replied Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello myself ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
And then because it was so very foolish everybody laughed .
It is a good thing to feel foolishly happy on a beautiful sunshiny day , especially down on the Green Meadows .
Jimmy Skunk was there .
He was feeling very , very good indeed , was Jimmy Skunk , for he had found some very fine beetles for his breakfast .
Little Joe Otter was there , and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Happy Jack Squirrel , and of course Reddy Fox was there .
Oh my , yes , of course Reddy Fox was there !
Reddy Fox never misses a chance to show off .
He was wearing his very newest red coat and his whitest waistcoat .
He had brushed his tail till it looked very handsome , and every few minutes he would turn and admire it .
Reddy Fox thought himself a very fine gentleman .
He admired himself and he wanted every one else to admire him .
`` Let's do stunts , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I can jump farther than anybody here ! ''
Then Peter Rabbit jumped a tremendously long jump .
Then everybody jumped , everybody but Reddy Fox .
Even Johnny Chuck jumped , and because he was so rolly-poly he tumbled over and over and everybody laughed and Johnny Chuck laughed loudest of all .
And because his hind legs are long and meant for jumping Peter Rabbit had jumped farther than any one else .
`` I can climb to the top of the old butternut tree quicker than anybody else , '' cried Happy Jack Squirrel , and away he started with Bobby Coon and Billy Mink after him , for though Billy Mink is a famous swimmer and can run swiftly , he can also climb when he has to .
But Happy Jack Squirrel was at the top of the old butternut tree almost before the others had started .
The Merry Little Breezes clapped their hands and everybody shouted for Happy Jack Squirrel , everybody but Reddy Fox .
`` I can swim faster than anybody here , '' shouted Little Joe Otter .
In a flash three little brown coats splashed into the Smiling Pool so suddenly that they almost upset Great-Grandfather Frog watching from his big green lily pad .
They belonged to Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat .
Across the Smiling Pool and back again they raced and Little Joe Otter was first out on the bank .
`` Hurrah for Little Joe Otter ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow .
And everybody shouted `` Hurrah ! ''
Everybody but Reddy Fox .
`` What can you do , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit , dancing up and down , he was so excited .
Jimmy Skunk yawned lazily .
`` I can throw a wonderful perfume farther than anybody here , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` We know it !
We know it ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes as everybody tumbled heels over head away from Jimmy Skunk , even Reddy Fox .
`` But please don't ! ''
And Jimmy Skunk didn't .
Then they all came back , Reddy Fox carefully brushing his handsome red coat which had become sadly mussed , he had fled in such a hurry .
Now for the first time in his life Johnny Chuck began to feel just a wee , wee bit discontented .
What was there he could do better than any one else ?
He couldn't jump and he couldn't climb and he couldn't swim .
He couldn't even run fast , because he was so fat and round and rolly-poly .
He quite forgot that he was so sunny-hearted and good-natured that everybody loved him , everybody but Reddy Fox .
Just then Reddy Fox began to boast , for Reddy Fox is a great boaster .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Reddy Fox , `` pooh !
Anybody could jump if their legs were made for jumping .
And what's the good of climbing trees anyway ?
Now I can run faster than anybody here -- faster than anybody in the whole world ! ''
said Reddy Fox , puffing himself out .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` You can't beat Spotty the Turtle . ''
Then everyone shouted and rolled over and over in the grass , they were so tickled , for every one remembered how Spotty the Turtle had once won a race from Reddy Fox .
For a minute Reddy Fox looked very foolish .
Then he lost his temper , which is a very unwise thing to do , for it is hard to find again .
He swelled himself out until every hair stood on end and he looked twice as big as he did before .
He strutted up and down and glared at each in turn .
`` And I 'm not afraid of any living thing on the Green Meadows ! ''
boasted Reddy Fox .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Do I see Bowser the Hound ? ''
Every hair on Reddy Fox suddenly fell back into place .
He whirled about nervously and anxiously looked over the Green Meadows .
Then everybody shouted again and rolled over and over in the grass and held on to their sides , for you see Bowser the Hound wasn't there at all .
But everybody took good care to keep away from Reddy Fox , everybody but Johnny Chuck .
He just sat still and chuckled and chuckled till his fat sides shook .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
demanded Reddy Fox .
`` I was just thinking , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` that though you can run so fast , you can't even catch me . ''
Reddy Fox just glared at him for a minute , he was so mad .
Then he sprang straight at Johnny Chuck .
`` I'll show you ! ''
he snarled .
Now Johnny Chuck had been sitting close beside a hole that Grandfather Chuck had dug a long time before and which was empty .
In a flash Johnny Chuck disappeared head first in the hole .
Now the hole was too small for Reddy Fox to enter , but he was so angry that he straightway began to dig it larger .
My , how the sand did fly !
It poured out behind Reddy Fox in a stream of shining yellow .
Johnny Chuck ran down the long tunnel underground until he reached the end .
Then when he heard Reddy Fox digging and knew that he was really coming , Johnny Chuck began to dig , too , only instead of digging down he dug up towards the sunshine and the blue sky .
My , how his short legs did fly and his stout little claws dug into the soft earth !
His little forepaws flew so fast that if you had been there you could hardly have seen them at all .
And with his strong hind legs he kicked the sand right back into the face of Reddy Fox .
All the little meadow people gathered around the hole where Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox had disappeared .
They were very anxious , very anxious indeed .
Would Reddy Fox catch Johnny Chuck ?
And what would he do to him ?
Was all their fun to end in something terrible to sunny-hearted , merry Johnny Chuck , whom everybody loved ?
All of a sudden , pop !
right out of the solid earth among the daisies and buttercups , just like a jack-in-the-box , came Johnny Chuck !
He looked very warm and a little tired , but he was still chuckling as he scampered across to another hole of Grandfather Chuck's .
By and by something else crawled out of the hole Johnny Chuck had made .
Could it be Reddy Fox ?
Where were his white waistcoat and beautiful red coat ?
And was that thing dragging behind him his splendid tail ?
He crept out of the hole and then just lay down and panted for breath .
He was almost too tired to move .
Then he began to spit sand out of his mouth and blow it out of his nose and try to wipe it out of his eyes .
The long hair of his fine coat was filled full of sand and no one would ever have guessed that this was Reddy Fox .
`` Haw !
haw !
haw ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow .
Then everybody shouted `` Haw !
haw !
haw ! ''
and began to roll in the grass and hold on to their sides once more ; everybody but Reddy Fox .
When he could get his breath he didn't look this way or that way , but just sneaked off to his home under the big hickory .
And when Old Mother West Wind came with her big bag to take the Merry Little Breezes to their home behind the Purple Hills , Johnny Chuck waddled back up the Lone Little Path chuckling to himself , for that little feeling of discontent was all gone .
He had found that after all he could do something better than anybody else on the Green Meadows , for in his heart he knew that none could dig so fast as he .
