I live high up in a city house all alone .
My room is a cosy little place , though there is nothing very splendid in it , -- only my pictures and books , my flowers and my little friend .
When I began to live there , I was very busy and therefore very happy ; but by-and-by , when my hurry was over and I had more time to myself , I often felt lonely .
When I ate my meals I used to wish for a pleasant companion to eat with me ; and when I sat by the fire of evenings , I thought how much more social it would be if some one sat opposite .
I had many friends and callers through the day , but the evenings were often rather dull ; for I couldn't read much , and didn't care to go out in the stormy weather .
I was wishing for a cheerful friend one night , when all of a sudden I found one ; for , sitting on my hand , I saw a plump , jolly-looking fly .
He sat quietly staring at me , with a mild little hum , as if to say , -- ` How are you ?
You wanted a friend , and here I am .
Will you have me ? '
Of course I would , for I liked him directly , he was so cheery and confiding , and seemed as glad to see me as I was to see him .
All his mates were dead and gone , and he was alone , like myself .
So I waggled one finger , by way of welcome , fearing to shake my hand , lest he should tumble off and feel hurt at my reception .
He seemed to understand me , and buzzed again , evidently saying , -- ` Thank you , ma'am .
I should like to stay in your warm room , and amuse you for my board .
I won't disturb you , but do my best to be a good little friend . '
So the bargain was struck , and he stopped to tea .
I found that his manners had been neglected ; for he was inclined to walk over the butter , drink out of the cream-pot , and put his fingers in the jelly .
A few taps with my spoon taught him to behave with more propriety , and he sipped a drop of milk from the waiter with a crumb of sugar , as a well-bred fly should do .
On account of his fine voice , I named him Buzz , and we soon got on excellently together .
He seemed to like his new quarters , and , after exploring every corner of the room , he chose his favourite haunts and began to enjoy himself .
I always knew where he was , for he kept up a constant song , humming and buzzing , like a little kettle getting ready to boil .
On sunny days , he amused himself by bumping his head against the window , and watching what went on outside .
It would have given me a headache , but he seemed to enjoy it immensely .
Up in my hanging basket of ivy he made his bower , and sat there on the moss basking in the sunshine , as luxuriously as any gentleman in his conservatory .
He was interested in the plants , and examined them daily with great care , walking over the ivy leaves , grubbing under the moss , and poking his head into the unfolding hyacinth buds to see how they got on .
The pictures , also , seemed to attract his attention , for he spent much time skating over the glasses and studying the designs .
Sometimes I would find him staring at my Madonna , as if he said , ` What in the world are all those topsy-turvy children about ? '
Then he 'd sit in the middle of a brook , in a water-color sketch by Vautin , as if bathing his feet , or seem to be eating the cherry which one little duck politely offers another little duck , in Oscar Pletch's Summer Party .
He frequently kissed my mother's portrait , and sat on my father's bald head , as if trying to get out some of the wisdom stored up there , like honey in an ill-thatched bee-hive .
My bronze Mercury rather puzzled him , for he could not understand why the young gentleman didn't fly off when he had four wings and seemed in such a hurry .
I 'm afraid he was a trifle vain , for he sat before the glass a great deal , and I often saw him cleaning his proboscis , and twiddling his feelers , and I know he was ` prinking , ' as we say .
The books pleased him , too , and he used to run them over , as if trying to choose which he would read , and never seemed able to decide .
He would have nothing to say to the fat French Dictionary , or my English Plays , but liked Goethe and Schiller , Emerson and Browning , as well as I did .
Carlyle didn't suit him , and Richter evidently made his head ache .
But Jean Ingelow's Poems delighted him , and so did her ` Stories told to a Child . '
` Fairy Bells ' he often listened to , and was very fond of the pictures in a photograph book of foreign places and great people .
He frequently promenaded on the piazza of a little Swiss chalet , standing on the mantel-piece , and thought it a charming residence for a single gentleman like himself .
The closet delighted him extremely , and he buzzed in the most joyful manner when he got among the provisions , -- for we kept house together .
Such revels as he had in the sugar-bowl ; such feasts of gingerbread and grapes ; such long sips of milk , and sly peeps into every uncovered box and dish !
Once I 'm afraid he took too much cider , for I found him lying on his back , kicking and humming like a crazy top , and he was very queer all the rest of that day ; so I kept the bottle corked after that .
But his favorite nook was among the ferns in the vase which a Parian dancing-girl carried .
She stood just over the stove on one little toe , rattling some castanets , which made no sound , and never getting a step farther for all her prancing .
This was a warm and pretty retreat for Buzz , and there he spent much of his time , swinging on the ferns , sleeping snugly in the vase , or warming his feet in the hot air that blew up , like a south wind , from the stove .
I don't believe there was a happier fly in Boston than my friend Buzz , and I grew fonder and fonder of him every day ; for he never got into mischief , but sung his cheery song , no matter what the weather was , and made himself agreeable .
Then he was so interested in all I did , it was delightful to have him round .
When I wrote he came and walked about over my paper to see that it was right , peeped into my ink-stand , and ran after my pen .
He never made silly or sharp criticisms on my stories , but appeared to admire them very much ; so I am sure he was a good judge .
When I sewed , he sat in my basket , or played hide-and-seek in the folds of my work , talking away all the while in the most sociable manner .
He often flew up all of a sudden , and danced about in the air , as if he was in such a jolly mood he couldn't keep still , and wanted me to come and play with him .
But , alas !
I had no wings , and could only sit stupidly still , and laugh at his pranks .
That was his exercise , for he never went out , and only took a sniff of air now and then when I opened the windows .
Well , little Buzz and I lived together many weeks , and never got tired of one another , which is saying a good deal .
At Christmas I went home for a week and left my room to take care of itself .
I put the hyacinths into the closet to be warm , and dropped the curtain , so the frost should not nip my ivy ; but I forgot Buzz .
I really would have taken him with me , or carried him down to a neighbour's room to be taken care of while I was away , but I never thought of him in the hurry of getting my presents and myself ready .
Off I went without even saying ` good-bye , ' and never thought of my little friend till Freddy , my small nephew , said to me one evening at dusk , -- ` Aunt Jo , tell me a story . '
So I began to tell him about Buzz , and all of a sudden I cried out , -- ` Mercy on me !
I 'm afraid he'll die of cold while I 'm gone . '
It troubled me a good deal , and I wanted to know how the poor little fellow was so much that I would have gone to see if I had not been so far away .
But it would be rather silly to hurry away twenty miles to look after one fly : so I finished my visit , and then went back to my room , hoping to find Buzz alive and well in spite of the cold .
Alas , no !
my little friend was gone .
There he lay on his back on the mantel-piece , his legs meekly folded , and his wings stiff and still .
He had evidently gone to the warm place , and been surprised when the heat died out and left him to freeze .
My poor little Buzz had sung his last song , danced his last dance , and gone where the good flies go .
I was very sorry and buried him among the ivy roots , where the moss lay green above him , the sun shone warmly on him , and the bitter cold could never come .
I miss him very much ; when I sit writing , I miss his cheerful voice and busy wings ; at meals there is no tiny little body to drink up spilt drops and eat the crumbs : in the evenings , when I sit alone , I want him more than ever , and every day , as I water my plants , I say , softly , -- ` Grow green , ivy , lie lightly , moss , shine warmly , sun , and make his last bed pleasant to my little friend . '
