A man's heart -- aye , and a woman's , too -- should be light in the spring .
The spirit of resurrection is abroad , calling the life of the world out of its wintry grave , knocking with radiant fingers at the gates of its tomb .
It stirs in human hearts , and makes them glad with the old primal gladness they felt in childhood .
It quickens human souls , and brings them , if so they will , so close to God that they may clasp hands with Him .
It is a time of wonder and renewed life , and a great outward and inward rapture , as of a young angel softly clapping his hands for creation's joy .
At least , so it should be ; and so it always had been with me until the spring when the dream-child first came into our lives .
That year I hated the spring -- I , who had always loved it so .
As boy I had loved it , and as man .
All the happiness that had ever been mine , and it was much , had come to blossom in the springtime .
It was in the spring that Josephine and I had first loved each other , or , at least , had first come into the full knowledge that we loved .
I think that we must have loved each other all our lives , and that each succeeding spring was a word in the revelation of that love , not to be understood until , in the fullness of time , the whole sentence was written out in that most beautiful of all beautiful springs .
How beautiful it was !
And how beautiful she was !
I suppose every lover thinks that of his lass ; otherwise he is a poor sort of lover .
But it was not only my eyes of love that made my dear lovely .
She was slim and lithe as a young , white-stemmed birch tree ; her hair was like a soft , dusky cloud ; and her eyes were as blue as Avonlea harbor on a fair twilight , when all the sky is abloom over it .
She had dark lashes , and a little red mouth that quivered when she was very sad or very happy , or when she loved very much -- quivered like a crimson rose too rudely shaken by the wind .
At such times what was a man to do save kiss it ?
The next spring we were married , and I brought her home to my gray old homestead on the gray old harbor shore .
A lonely place for a young bride , said Avonlea people .
Nay , it was not so .
She was happy here , even in my absences .
She loved the great , restless harbor and the vast , misty sea beyond ; she loved the tides , keeping their world-old tryst with the shore , and the gulls , and the croon of the waves , and the call of the winds in the fir woods at noon and even ; she loved the moonrises and the sunsets , and the clear , calm nights when the stars seemed to have fallen into the water and to be a little dizzy from such a fall .
She loved these things , even as I did .
No , she was never lonely here then .
The third spring came , and our boy was born .
We thought we had been happy before ; now we knew that we had only dreamed a pleasant dream of happiness , and had awakened to this exquisite reality .
We thought we had loved each other before ; now , as I looked into my wife's pale face , blanched with its baptism of pain , and met the uplifted gaze of her blue eyes , aglow with the holy passion of motherhood , I knew we had only imagined what love might be .
The imagination had been sweet , as the thought of the rose is sweet before the bud is open ; but as the rose to the thought , so was love to the imagination of it .
`` All my thoughts are poetry since baby came , '' my wife said once , rapturously .
Our boy lived for twenty months .
He was a sturdy , toddling rogue , so full of life and laughter and mischief that , when he died , one day , after the illness of an hour , it seemed a most absurd thing that he should be dead -- a thing I could have laughed at , until belief forced itself into my soul like a burning , searing iron .
I think I grieved over my little son's death as deeply and sincerely as ever man did , or could .
But the heart of the father is not as the heart of the mother .
Time brought no healing to Josephine ; she fretted and pined ; her cheeks lost their pretty oval , and her red mouth grew pale and drooping .
I hoped that spring might work its miracle upon her .
When the buds swelled , and the old earth grew green in the sun , and the gulls came back to the gray harbor , whose very grayness grew golden and mellow , I thought I should see her smile again .
But , when the spring came , came the dream-child , and the fear that was to be my companion , at bed and board , from sunsetting to sunsetting .
One night I awakened from sleep , realizing in the moment of awakening that I was alone .
I listened to hear whether my wife were moving about the house .
I heard nothing but the little splash of waves on the shore below and the low moan of the distant ocean .
I rose and searched the house .
She was not in it .
I did not know where to seek her ; but , at a venture , I started along the shore .
It was pale , fainting moonlight .
The harbor looked like a phantom harbor , and the night was as still and cold and calm as the face of a dead man .
At last I saw my wife coming to me along the shore .
When I saw her , I knew what I had feared and how great my fear had been .
As she drew near , I saw that she had been crying ; her face was stained with tears , and her dark hair hung loose over her shoulders in little , glossy ringlets like a child's .
She seemed to be very tired , and at intervals she wrung her small hands together .
She showed no surprise when she met me , but only held out her hands to me as if glad to see me .
`` I followed him -- but I could not overtake him , '' she said with a sob .
`` I did my best -- I hurried so ; but he was always a little way ahead .
And then I lost him -- and so I came back .
But I did my best -- indeed I did .
And oh , I am so tired ! ''
`` Josie , dearest , what do you mean , and where have you been ? ''
I said , drawing her close to me .
`` Why did you go out so -- alone in the night ? ''
She looked at me wonderingly .
`` How could I help it , David ?
He called me .
I had to go . ''
`` WHO called you ? ''
`` The child , '' she answered in a whisper .
`` Our child , David -- our pretty boy .
I awakened in the darkness and heard him calling to me down on the shore .
Such a sad , little wailing cry , David , as if he were cold and lonely and wanted his mother .
I hurried out to him , but I could not find him .
I could only hear the call , and I followed it on and on , far down the shore .
Oh , I tried so hard to overtake it , but I could not .
Once I saw a little white hand beckoning to me far ahead in the moonlight .
But still I could not go fast enough .
And then the cry ceased , and I was there all alone on that terrible , cold , gray shore .
I was so tired and I came home .
But I wish I could have found him .
Perhaps he does not know that I tried to .
Perhaps he thinks his mother never listened to his call .
Oh , I would not have him think that . ''
`` You have had a bad dream , dear , '' I said .
I tried to say it naturally ; but it is hard for a man to speak naturally when he feels a mortal dread striking into his very vitals with its deadly chill .
`` It was no dream , '' she answered reproachfully .
`` I tell you I heard him calling me -- me , his mother .
What could I do but go to him ?
You can not understand -- you are only his father .
It was not you who gave him birth .
It was not you who paid the price of his dear life in pain .
He would not call to you -- he wanted his mother . ''
I got her back to the house and to her bed , whither she went obediently enough , and soon fell into the sleep of exhaustion .
But there was no more sleep for me that night .
I kept a grim vigil with dread .
When I had married Josephine , one of those officious relatives that are apt to buzz about a man's marriage told me that her grandmother had been insane all the latter part of her life .
She had grieved over the death of a favorite child until she lost her mind , and , as the first indication of it , she had sought by nights a white dream-child which always called her , so she said , and led her afar with a little , pale , beckoning hand .
I had smiled at the story then .
What had that grim old bygone to do with springtime and love and Josephine ?
But it came back to me now , hand in hand with my fear .
Was this fate coming on my dear wife ?
It was too horrible for belief .
She was so young , so fair , so sweet , this girl-wife of mine .
It had been only a bad dream , with a frightened , bewildered waking .
So I tried to comfort myself .
When she awakened in the morning she did not speak of what had happened and I did not dare to .
She seemed more cheerful that day than she had been , and went about her household duties briskly and skillfully .
My fear lifted .
I was sure now that she had only dreamed .
And I was confirmed in my hopeful belief when two nights had passed away uneventfully .
Then , on the third night , he dream-child called to her again .
I wakened from a troubled doze to find her dressing herself with feverish haste .
`` He is calling me , '' she cried .
`` Oh , don't you hear him ?
Can't you hear him ?
Listen -- listen -- the little , lonely cry !
Yes , yes , my precious , mother is coming .
Wait for me .
Mother is coming to her pretty boy ! ''
I caught her hand and let her lead me where she would .
Hand in hand we followed the dream-child down the harbor shore in that ghostly , clouded moonlight .
Ever , she said , the little cry sounded before her .
She entreated the dream-child to wait for her ; she cried and implored and uttered tender mother-talk .
But , at last , she ceased to hear the cry ; and then , weeping , wearied , she let me lead her home again .
What a horror brooded over that spring -- that so beautiful spring !
It was a time of wonder and marvel ; of the soft touch of silver rain on greening fields ; of the incredible delicacy of young leaves ; of blossom on the land and blossom in the sunset .
The whole world bloomed in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the evasive , fleeting charm of spring and girlhood and young morning .
And almost every night of this wonderful time the dream-child called his mother , and we roved the gray shore in quest of him .
In the day she was herself ; but , when the night fell , she was restless and uneasy until she heard the call .
Then follow it she would , even through storm and darkness .
It was then , she said , that the cry sounded loudest and nearest , as if her pretty boy were frightened by the tempest .
What wild , terrible rovings we had , she straining forward , eager to overtake the dream-child ; I , sick at heart , following , guiding , protecting , as best I could ; then afterwards leading her gently home , heart-broken because she could not reach the child .
I bore my burden in secret , determining that gossip should not busy itself with my wife's condition so long as I could keep it from becoming known .
We had no near relatives -- none with any right to share any trouble -- and whoso accepteth human love must bind it to his soul with pain .
I thought , however , that I should have medical advice , and I took our old doctor into my confidence .
He looked grave when he heard my story .
I did not like his expression nor his few guarded remarks .
He said he thought human aid would avail little ; she might come all right in time ; humor her , as far as possible , watch over her , protect her .
He needed not to tell me THAT .
The spring went out and summer came in -- and the horror deepened and darkened .
I knew that suspicions were being whispered from lip to lip .
We had been seen on our nightly quests .
Men and women began to look at us pityingly when we went abroad .
One day , on a dull , drowsy afternoon , the dream-child called .
I knew then that the end was near ; the end had been near in the old grandmother's case sixty years before when the dream-child called in the day .
The doctor looked graver than ever when I told him , and said that the time had come when I must have help in my task .
I could not watch by day and night .
Unless I had assistance I would break down .
I did not think that I should .
Love is stronger than that .
And on one thing I was determined -- they should never take my wife from me .
No restraint sterner than a husband's loving hand should ever be put upon her , my pretty , piteous darling .
I never spoke of the dream-child to her .
The doctor advised against it .
It would , he said , only serve to deepen the delusion .
When he hinted at an asylum I gave him a look that would have been a fierce word for another man .
He never spoke of it again .
One night in August there was a dull , murky sunset after a dead , breathless day of heat , with not a wind stirring .
The sea was not blue as a sea should be , but pink -- all pink -- a ghastly , staring , painted pink .
I lingered on the harbor shore below the house until dark .
The evening bells were ringing faintly and mournfully in a church across the harbor .
Behind me , in the kitchen , I heard my wife singing .
Sometimes now her spirits were fitfully high , and then she would sing the old songs of her girlhood .
But even in her singing was something strange , as if a wailing , unearthly cry rang through it .
Nothing about her was sadder than that strange singing .
When I went back to the house the rain was beginning to fall ; but there was no wind or sound in the air -- only that dismal stillness , as if the world were holding its breath in expectation of a calamity .
Josie was standing by the window , looking out and listening .
I tried to induce her to go to bed , but she only shook her head .
`` I might fall asleep and not hear him when he called , '' she said .
`` I am always afraid to sleep now , for fear he should call and his mother fail to hear him . ''
Knowing it was of no use to entreat , I sat down by the table and tried to read .
Three hours passed on .
When the clock struck midnight she started up , with the wild light in her sunken blue eyes .
`` He is calling , '' she cried , `` calling out there in the storm .
Yes , yes , sweet , I am coming ! ''
She opened the door and fled down the path to the shore .
I snatched a lantern from the wall , lighted it , and followed .
It was the blackest night I was ever out in , dark with the very darkness of death .
The rain fell thickly and heavily .
I overtook Josie , caught her hand , and stumbled along in her wake , for she went with the speed and recklessness of a distraught woman .
We moved in the little flitting circle of light shed by the lantern .
All around us and above us was a horrible , voiceless darkness , held , as it were , at bay by the friendly light .
`` If I could only overtake him once , '' moaned Josie .
`` If I could just kiss him once , and hold him close against my aching heart .
This pain , that never leaves me , would leave me than .
Oh , my pretty boy , wait for mother !
I am coming to you .
Listen , David ; he cries -- he cries so pitifully ; listen !
Can't you hear it ? ''
I DID hear it !
Clear and distinct , out of the deadly still darkness before us , came a faint , wailing cry .
What was it ?
Was I , too , going mad , or WAS there something out there -- something that cried and moaned -- longing for human love , yet ever retreating from human footsteps ?
I am not a superstitious man ; but my nerve had been shaken by my long trial , and I was weaker than I thought .
Terror took possession of me -- terror unnameable .
I trembled in every limb ; clammy perspiration oozed from my forehead ; I was possessed by a wild impulse to turn and flee -- anywhere , away from that unearthly cry .
But Josephine's cold hand gripped mine firmly , and led me on .
That strange cry still rang in my ears .
But it did not recede ; it sounded clearer and stronger ; it was a wail ; but a loud , insistent wail ; it was nearer -- nearer ; it was in the darkness just beyond us .
Then we came to it ; a little dory had been beached on the pebbles and left there by the receding tide .
There was a child in it -- a boy , of perhaps two years old , who crouched in the bottom of the dory in water to his waist , his big , blue eyes wild and wide with terror , his face white and tear-stained .
He wailed again when he saw us , and held out his little hands .
My horror fell away from me like a discarded garment .
THIS child was living .
How he had come there , whence and why , I did not know and , in my state of mind , did not question .
It was no cry of parted spirit I had heard -- that was enough for me .
`` Oh , the poor darling ! ''
cried my wife .
She stooped over the dory and lifted the baby in her arms .
His long , fair curls fell on her shoulder ; she laid her face against his and wrapped her shawl around him .
`` Let me carry him , dear , '' I said .
`` He is very wet , and too heavy for you . ''
`` No , no , I must carry him .
My arms have been so empty -- they are full now .
Oh , David , the pain at my heart has gone .
He has come to me to take the place of my own .
God has sent him to me out of the sea .
He is wet and cold and tired .
Hush , sweet one , we will go home . ''
Silently I followed her home .
The wind was rising , coming in sudden , angry gusts ; the storm was at hand , but we reached shelter before it broke .
Just as I shut our door behind us it smote the house with the roar of a baffled beast .
I thanked God that we were not out in it , following the dream-child .
`` You are very wet , Josie , '' I said .
`` Go and put on dry clothes at once . ''
`` The child must be looked to first , '' she said firmly .
`` See how chilled and exhausted he is , the pretty dear .
Light a fire quickly , David , while I get dry things for him . ''
I let her have her way .
She brought out the clothes our own child had worn and dressed the waif in them , rubbing his chilled limbs , brushing his wet hair , laughing over him , mothering him .
She seemed like her old self .
For my own part , I was bewildered .
All the questions I had not asked before came crowding to my mind how .
Whose child was this ?
Whence had he come ?
What was the meaning of it all ?
He was a pretty baby , fair and plump and rosy .
When he was dried and fed , he fell asleep in Josie's arms .
She hung over him in a passion of delight .
It was with difficulty I persuaded her to leave him long enough to change her wet clothes .
She never asked whose he might be or from where he might have come .
He had been sent to her from the sea ; the dream-child had led her to him ; that was what she believed , and I dared not throw any doubt on that belief .
She slept that night with the baby on her arm , and in her sleep her face was the face of a girl in her youth , untroubled and unworn .
I expected that the morrow would bring some one seeking the baby .
I had come to the conclusion that he must belong to the `` Cove '' across the harbor , where the fishing hamlet was ; and all day , while Josie laughed and played with him , I waited and listened for the footsteps of those who would come seeking him .
But they did not come .
Day after day passed , and still they did not come .
I was in a maze of perplexity .
What should I do ?
I shrank from the thought of the boy being taken away from us .
Since we had found him the dream-child had never called .
My wife seemed to have turned back from the dark borderland , where her feet had strayed to walk again with me in our own homely paths .
Day and night she was her old , bright self , happy and serene in the new motherhood that had come to her .
The only thing strange in her was her calm acceptance of the event .
She never wondered who or whose the child might be -- never seemed to fear that he would be taken from her ; and she gave him our dream-child's name .
At last , when a full week had passed , I went , in my bewilderment , to our old doctor .
`` A most extraordinary thing , '' he said thoughtfully .
`` The child , as you say , must belong to the Spruce Cove people .
Yet it is an almost unbelievable thing that there has been no search or inquiry after him .
Probably there is some simple explanation of the mystery , however .
I advise you to go over to the Cove and inquire .
When you find the parents or guardians of the child , ask them to allow you to keep it for a time .
It may prove your wife's salvation .
I have known such cases .
Evidently on that night the crisis of her mental disorder was reached .
A little thing might have sufficed to turn her feet either way -- back to reason and sanity , or into deeper darkness .
It is my belief that the former has occurred , and that , if she is left in undisturbed possession of this child for a time , she will recover completely . ''
I drove around the harbor that day with a lighter heart than I had hoped ever to possess again .
When I reached Spruce Cove the first person I met was old Abel Blair .
I asked him if any child were missing from the Cove or along shore .
He looked at me in surprise , shook his head , and said he had not heard of any .
I told him as much of the tale as was necessary , leaving him to think that my wife and I had found the dory and its small passenger during an ordinary walk along the shore .
`` A green dory ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Ben Forbes ' old green dory has been missing for a week , but it was so rotten and leaky he didn't bother looking for it .
But this child , sir -- it beats me .
What might he be like ? ''
I described the child as closely as possible .
`` That fits little Harry Martin to a hair , '' said old Abel , perplexedly , `` but , sir , it can't be .
Or , if it is , there's been foul work somewhere .
James Martin's wife died last winter , sir , and he died the next month .
They left a baby and not much else .
There weren't nobody to take the child but Jim's half-sister , Maggie Fleming .
She lived here at the Cove , and , I 'm sorry to say , sir , she hadn't too good a name .
She didn't want to be bothered with the baby , and folks say she neglected him scandalous .
Well , last spring she begun talking of going away to the States .
She said a friend of hers had got her a good place in Boston , and she was going to go and take little Harry .
We supposed it was all right .
Last Saturday she went , sir .
She was going to walk to the station , and the last seen of her she was trudging along the road , carrying the baby .
It hasn't been thought of since .
But , sir , d'ye suppose she set that innocent child adrift in that old leaky dory to send him to his death ?
I knew Maggie was no better than she should be , but I can't believe she was as bad as that . ''
`` You must come over with me and see if you can identify the child , '' I said .
`` If he is Harry Martin I shall keep him .
My wife has been very lonely since our baby died , and she has taken a fancy to this little chap . ''
When we reached my home old Abel recognized the child as Harry Martin .
He is with us still .
His baby hands led my dear wife back to health and happiness .
Other children have come to us , she loves them all dearly ; but the boy who bears her dead son's name is to her -- aye , and to me -- as dear as if she had given him birth .
He came from the sea , and at his coming the ghostly dream-child fled , nevermore to lure my wife away from me with its exciting cry .
Therefore I look upon him and love him as my first-born .
