' `` You can't do this '' and `` you mustn't do that , '' from morning to night .
Try it yourself and see how you 'd like it , ' muttered Harry , as he flung down his hat in sulky obedience to his father's command to give up a swim in the river and keep himself cool with a book that warm summer evening .
` Of course I should like to mind my parents .
Good children always do , ' began Mr. Fairbairn , entirely forgetting the pranks of his boyhood , as people are apt to .
` Glad I didn't know you then .
Must have been a regular prig , ' growled Harry under his breath .
` Silence , sir !
go to your room , and don't let me see you till tea-time .
You must be taught respect as well as obedience , ' and Mr. Fairbairn gave the table a rap that caused his son to retire precipitately .
On the stairs he met his sister Kitty looking as cross as himself .
` What's the matter with you ? '
he asked , pausing a minute , for misery loves company .
` Mamma will make me dress up in a stiff clean frock , and have my hair curled over again just because some one may come .
I want to play in the garden , and I can't all fussed up this way .
I do hate company and clothes and manners , don't you ? '
answered Kitty , with a spiteful pull at her sash . '
I hate being ordered round everlastingly , and badgered from morning till night .
I 'd just like to be let alone , ' and Harry went on his way to captivity with a grim shake of the head and a very strong desire to run away from home altogether .
` So would I , mamma is so fussy .
I never have any peace of my life , ' sighed Kitty , feeling that her lot was a hard one .
The martyr in brown linen went up , and the other martyr in white cambric went down , both looking as they felt , rebellious and unhappy .
Yet a stranger seeing them and their home would have thought they had everything heart could desire .
All the comforts that money could buy , and all the beauty that taste could give seemed gathered round them .
Papa and mamma loved the two little people dearly , and no real care or sorrow came to trouble the lives that would have been all sunshine but for one thing .
With the best intentions in the world , Mr. and Mrs. Fairbairn were spoiling their children by constant fault-finding , too many rules and too little sympathy with the active young souls and bodies under their care .
As Harry said , they were ordered about , corrected and fussed over from morning till night , and were getting so tired of it that the most desperate ideas began to enter their heads .
Now , in the house was a quiet old maiden aunt , who saw the mischief brewing , and tried to cure it by suggesting more liberty and less ` nagging , ' as the boys call it .
But Mr. and Mrs. F. always silenced her by saying , -- ` My dear Betsey , you never had a family , so how can you know anything about the proper management of children ? '
They quite forgot that sister Betsey had brought up a flock of motherless brothers and sisters , and done it wisely and well , though she never got any thanks or praise for it , and never expected any for doing her duty faithfully .
If it had not been for aunty , Harry and Kitty would have long ago carried out their favorite plan , and have run away together , like Roland and Maybird .
She kept them from this foolish prank by all sorts of unsuspected means , and was their refuge in troublous times .
For all her quiet ways , aunty was full of fun as well as sympathy and patience , and she smoothed the thorny road to virtue with the innocent and kindly little arts that make some people as useful and beloved as good fairy godmothers were once upon a time .
As they sat at tea that evening papa and mamma were most affable and lively ; but the children's spirits were depressed by a long day of restraint , and they sat like well-bred mutes , languidly eating their supper .
` It's the warm weather .
They need something bracing .
I'll give them a dose of iron mixture to-morrow , ' said mamma .
` I've taken enough now to make a cooking-stove , ' groaned Kitty , who hated being dosed .
` If you 'd let me go swimming every night I 'd be all right , ' added Harry .
` Not another word on that point .
I will not let you do it , for you will get drowned as sure as you try , ' said mamma , who was so timid she had panics the minute her boy was out of sight .
` Aunt Betsey let her boys go , and they never came to grief , ' began Harry .
` Aunt Betsey's ideas and mine differ .
Children are not brought up now as they were in her day , ' answered mamma with a superior air . '
I just wish they were .
Jolly good times her boys had . '
` Yes , and girls too , playing anything they liked , and not rigged up and plagued with company , ' cried Kitty , with sudden interest .
` What do you mean by that ? '
asked papa good-naturedly ; for somehow his youth returned to him for a minute , and seemed very pleasant .
The children could not explain very well , but Harry said slowly , -- ` If you were to be in our places for a day you 'd see what we mean . '
` Wouldn't it be worth your while to try the experiment ? '
said Aunt Betsey , with a smile .
Papa and mamma laughed at the idea , but looked sober when aunty added , -- ` Why not put yourselves in their places for a day and see how you like it ?
I think you would understand the case better than any one could describe it , and perhaps do both yourselves and the children a lasting service . '
` Upon my word , that's a droll idea !
What do you say to it , mamma ? '
and papa looked much amused . '
I am willing to try it if you are , just for the fun of the thing , but I don't think it will do any good ; ' and mamma shook her head as if Aunt Betsey's plan was a wild one .
The children sat quiet , speechless with surprise at this singular proposal , but as its full richness dawned upon them , they skipped in their chairs and clapped their hands delightedly .
` How do you propose to carry out this new educational frolic ? '
asked papa , beginning to feel some curiosity as to the part he was to play .
` Merely let the children do as they like for one day and have full power over you .
Let them plan your duties and pleasures , order your food , fix your hours , and punish or reward you as they think proper .
You must promise entire obedience , and keep the agreement till night . '
` Good !
good !
Oh , won't it be fun ! '
cried Harry and Kitty , applauding enthusiastically ; while papa and mamma looked rather sober as the plan was developed before them .
` To-morrow is a holiday for us all , and we might celebrate it by this funny experiment .
It will amuse us and do no harm , at any rate , ' added aunty , quite in love with her new scheme .
` Very well , we will .
Come , mamma , let us promise , and see what these rogues will do for us .
Playing father and mother is no joke , mind you ; but you will have an easier time of it than we do , for we shall behave ourselves , ' said papa , with a virtuous expression .
Mamma agreed , and the supper ended merrily , for every one was full of curiosity as to the success of the new play .
Harry and Kitty went to bed early , that they might be ready for the exciting labors of the next day .
Aunt Betsey paid each a short visit before they slept , and it is supposed that she laid out the order of performances , and told each what to do ; for the little people would never have thought of so many sly things if left to themselves .
At seven the next morning , as mamma was in her dressing-room , just putting on her cool , easy wrapper , in came Kitty with a solemn face , though her eyes danced with fun , as she said , -- ` Careless , untidy girl !
Put on a clean dress , do up your hair properly , and go and practise half an hour before breakfast . '
At first mamma looked as if inclined to refuse , but Kitty was firm ; and , with a sigh , mamma rustled into a stiff , scratchy , French print , took her hair out of the comfortable net , and braided it carefully up ; then , instead of reading in her arm-chair , she was led to the parlor and set to learning a hard piece of music .
` Can't I have my early cup of tea and my roll ? '
she asked .
` Eating between meals is a very bad habit , and I can't allow it , ' said Kitty , in the tone her mother often used to her . '
I shall have a mug of new milk and a roll , because grown people need more nourishment than children ; ' and sitting down , she ate her early lunch with a relish , while poor mamma played away , feeling quite out of tune herself .
Harry found papa enjoying the last delightful doze that makes bed so fascinating of a morning .
As if half afraid to try the experiment , the boy slowly approached and gave the sleeper a sudden , hard shake , saying briskly , -- ` Come , come , come , lazy-bones !
Get up , get up ! '
Papa started as if an earthquake had roused him , and stared at Harry , astonished for a minute , then he remembered , and upset Harry's gravity by whining out , -- ` Come , you let me alone .
It isn't time yet , and I am so tired . '
Harry took the joke , and assuming the stern air of his father on such occasions , said impressively , -- ` You have been called , and now if you are not down in fifteen minutes you won't have any breakfast .
Not a morsel , sir , not a morsel ; ' and , coolly pocketing his father's watch , he retired , to giggle all the way downstairs .
When the breakfast bell rang , mamma hurried into the dining-room , longing for her tea .
But Kitty sat behind the urn , and said gravely , -- ` Go back , and enter the room properly .
Will you never learn to behave like a lady ? '
Mamma looked impatient at the delay , and having re-entered in her most elegant manner , sat down , and passed her plate for fresh trout and muffins .
` No fish or hot bread for you , my dear .
Eat your good oatmeal porridge and milk ; that is the proper food for children . '
` Can't I have some tea ? '
cried mamma , in despair , for without it she felt quite lost .
` Certainly not .
I never was allowed tea when a little girl , and couldn't think of giving it to you , ' said Kitty , filling a large cup for herself , and sipping the forbidden draught with a relish .
Poor mamma quite groaned at this hard fate , but meekly obeyed , and ate the detested porridge , understanding Kitty's dislike to it at last .
Harry , sitting in his father's chair , read the paper , and ate everything he could lay his hands on , with a funny assumption of his father's morning manner .
Aunt Betsey looked on much amused , and now and then nodded to the children as if she thought things were going nicely .
Breakfast was half over when papa came in , and was about to take Harry's place when his son said , trying vainly to look grave as he showed the watch , -- ` What did I tell you , sir ?
You are late again , sir .
No breakfast , sir .
I 'm sorry , but this habit must be broken up .
Not a word ; it's your own fault , and you must bear the penalty . '
` Come , now , that's hard on a fellow !
I 'm awful hungry .
Can't I have just a bite of something ? '
asked papa , quite taken aback at this stern decree . '
I said not a morsel , and I shall keep my word .
Go to your morning duties and let this be a lesson to you . '
Papa cast a look at Aunt Betsey , that was both comic and pathetic , and departed without a word ; but he felt a sudden sympathy with his son , who had often been sent fasting from the table for some small offence .
Now it was that he appreciated aunty's kind heart , and felt quite fond of her , for in a few minutes she came to him , as he raked the gravel walk , Harry's duty every day , and slipping a nice , warm , well-buttered muffin into his hand , said , in her motherly way , -- ` My dear , do try and please your father .
He is right about late rising , but I can't bear to see you starve . '
` Betsey , you are an angel ! '
and turning his back to the house , papa bolted the muffin with grateful rapidity , inquiring with a laugh , ` Do you think those rogues will keep it up in this vigorous style all day ? ' '
I trust so ; it isn't a bit overdone .
Hope you like it ! '
and Aunt Betsey walked away , looking as if she enjoyed it extremely .
` Now put on your hat and draw baby up and down the avenue for half an hour .
Don't go on the grass , or you will wet your feet ; and don't play with baby , I want her to go to sleep ; and don't talk to papa , or he will neglect his work , ' said Kitty , as they rose from table .
Now , it was a warm morning and baby was heavy and the avenue was dull , and mamma much preferred to stay in the house and sew the trimming on to a new and pretty dress .
` Must I really ?
Kitty you are a hard-hearted mamma to make me do it , ' and Mrs. Fairbairn hoped her play-parent would relent .
But she did not , and only answered with a meaning look . '
I have to do it every day , and you don't let me off . '
Mamma said no more , but put on her hat and trundled away with fretful baby , thinking to find her fellow-sufferer and have a laugh over the joke .
She was disappointed , however , for Harry called papa away to weed the lettuce-bed , and then shut him up in the study to get his lessons , while he mounted the pony and trotted away to town to buy a new fishing-rod and otherwise enjoy himself .
When mamma came in , hot and tired , she was met by Kitty with a bottle in one hand and a spoon in the other .
` Here is your iron mixture , dear .
Now take it like a good girl . ' '
I won't ! '
and mamma looked quite stubborn .
` Then aunty will hold your hands and I shall make you . '
` But I don't like it ; I don't need it , ' cried mamma .
` Neither do I , but you give it to me all the same .
I 'm sure you need strengthening more than I do , you have so many `` trials , '' ' and Kitty looked very sly as she quoted one of the words often on her mother's lips .
` You 'd better mind , Carrie ; it can't hurt you , and you know you promised entire obedience .
Set a good example , ' said aunty .
` But I never thought these little chits would do so well .
Ugh , how disagreeable it is ! '
And mamma took her dose with a wry face , feeling that Aunt Betsey was siding with the wrong party .
` Now sit down and hem these towels till dinner-time .
I have so much to do I don't know which way to turn , ' continued Kitty , much elated with her success .
Rest of any sort was welcome , so mamma sewed busily till callers came .
They happened to be some little friends of Kitty's , and she went to them in the parlor , telling mamma to go up to nurse and have her hair brushed and her dress changed , and then come and see the guests .
While she was away Kitty told the girls the joke they were having , and begged them to help her carry it out .
They agreed , being ready for fun and not at all afraid of Mrs. Fairbairn .
So when she came in they all began to kiss and cuddle and praise and pass her round as if she was a doll , to her great discomfort and the great amusement of the little girls .
While this was going on in the drawing-room , Harry was tutoring his father in the study , and putting that poor gentleman through a course of questions that nearly drove him distracted ; for Harry got out the hardest books he could find , and selected the most puzzling subjects .
A dusty old history was rummaged out also , and classical researches followed , in which papa's memory played him false more than once , calling forth rebukes from his severe young tutor .
But he came to open disgrace over his mathematics , for he had no head for figures , and , not being a business man , had not troubled himself about the matter ; so Harry , who was in fine practice , utterly routed him in mental arithmetic by giving him regular puzzlers , and when he got stuck offered no help , but shook his head and called him a stupid fellow .
The dinner-bell released the exhausted student , and he gladly took his son's place , looking as if he had been hard at work .
He was faint with hunger , but was helped last , being ` only a boy , ' and then checked every five minutes for eating too fast .
Mamma was very meek , and only looked wistfully at the pie when told in her own words that pastry was bad for children .
Any attempts at conversation were promptly quenched by the worn-out old saying , ` Children should be seen , not heard , ' while Harry and Kitty chattered all dinner-time , and enjoyed it to their hearts ' content , especially the frequent pecks at their great children , who , to be even with them , imitated all their tricks as well as they could .
` Don't whistle at table , papa ; ' ` keep your hands still mamma ; ' ` wait till you are helped , sir ; ' ` tuck your napkin well in , and don't spill your soup , Caroline . '
Aunt Betsey laughed till her eyes were full , and they had a jolly time , though the little people had the best of it , for the others obeyed them in spite of their dislike to the new rules .
` Now you may play for two hours , ' was the gracious order issued as they rose from table .
Mamma fell upon a sofa exhausted , and papa hurried to read his paper in the shady garden .
Usually these hours of apparent freedom were spoilt by constant calls , -- not to run , not to play this or that , or frequent calls to do errands .
The children had mercy , however , and left them in peace ; which was a wise move on the whole , for the poor souls found rest so agreeable they privately resolved to let the children alone in their play-hours .
` Can I go over and see Mr. Hammond ? '
asked papa , wishing to use up the last half-hour of his time by a neighbourly call .
` No ; I don't like Tommy Hammond , so I don't wish you to play with his father , ' said Harry , with a sly twinkle of the eye , as he turned the tables on his papa .
Mr. Fairbairn gave a low whistle and retired to the barn , where Harry followed him , and ordered the man to harness up old Bill .
` Going to drive , sir ? '
asked papa , respectfully .
` Don't ask questions , ' was all the answer he got .
Old Bill was put into the best buggy and driven to the hall door .
Papa followed , and mamma sprang up from her nap , ready for her afternoon drive .
` Can't I go ? '
she asked , as Kitty came down in her new hat and gloves .
` No ; there isn't room . '
` Why not have the carryall , and let us go , too , we like it so much , ' said papa , in the pleading tone Harry often used .
Kitty was about to consent , for she loved mamma , and found it hard to cross her so .
But Harry was made of sterner stuff ; his wrongs still burned within him , and he said impatiently -- ` We can't be troubled with you .
The buggy is nicest and lightest , and we want to talk over our affairs .
You , my son , can help John turn the hay on the lawn , and Caroline can amuse baby , or help Jane with the preserves .
Little girls should be domestic . '
` Oh , thunder ! '
growled papa .
` Aunt Betsey taught you that speech , you saucy boy , ' cried mamma , as the children drove off in high glee , leaving their parents to the distasteful tasks set them .
Mrs. Fairbairn wanted to read , but baby was fretful , and there was no Kitty to turn him over to , so she spent her afternoon amusing the small tyrant , while papa made hay in the sun and didn't like it .
Just at tea-time the children came home , full of the charms of their drive , but did not take the trouble to tell much about it to the stay-at-home people .
Bread and milk was all they allowed their victims , while they revelled in marmalade and cake , fruit and tea . '
I expect company this evening , but I don't wish you to sit up , Caroline ; you are too young , and late hours are bad for your eyes .
Go to bed , and don't forget to brush your hair and teeth well , five minutes for each ; cold cream your hands , fold your ribbons , hang up your clothes , put out your boots to be cleaned , and put in the mosquito bars ; I will come and take away the light when I am dressed . '
Kitty delivered this dread command with effect , for she had heard and cried over it too often not to have it quite by heart .
` But I can't go to bed at half-past seven o'clock of a summer night !
I 'm not sleepy , and this is just the pleasantest time of the whole day , ' said mamma , thinking her bargain a hard one .
` Go up directly , my daughter , and don't discuss the matter ; I know what is best for you , ' and Kitty sent social , wide-awake mamma to bed , there to lie thinking soberly till Mrs. Kit came for the lamp .
` Have you had a happy day , love ? '
she asked , bending over the pillow , as her mother used to do .
` No , ma'am . '
` Then it was your own fault , my child .
Obey your parents in all things , and you will be both good and happy . '
` That depends ' -- began mamma , but stopped short , remembering that to-morrow she would be on the other side , and anything she might say now would be quoted against her .
But Kitty understood , and her heart melted as she hugged her mother and said in her own caressing way -- ` Poor little mamma !
did she have a hard time ?
and didn't she like being a good girl and minding her parents ? '
Mamma laughed also , and held Kitty close , but all she said was -- ` Good-night , dear ; don't be troubled : it will be all right to-morrow . ' '
I hope so , ' and with a hearty kiss , Kitty went thoughtfully downstairs to meet several little friends whom she had asked to spend the evening with her .
As the ladies left the room , papa leaned back and prepared to smoke a cigar , feeling that he needed the comfort of it after this trying day .
But Harry was down upon him at once . '
A very bad habit -- can't allow it .
Throw that dirty thing away , and go and get your Latin lesson for to-morrow .
The study is quiet , and we want this room . '
` But I am tired .
I can't study at night .
Let me off till to-morrow , please , sir ! '
begged papa , who had not looked at Latin since he left school .
` Not a word , sir !
I shall listen to no excuses , and shall not let you neglect your education on any account , ' and Harry slapped the table à la papa in the most impressive manner .
Mr. Fairbairn went away into the dull study and made believe do his lesson , but he really smoked and meditated .
The young folks had a grand revel , and kept it up till ten o'clock , while mamma lay awake , longing to go down and see what they were about , and papa shortly fell asleep , quite exhausted by the society of a Latin Grammar .
` Idle boy , is this the way you study ? '
said Harry , audaciously tweaking him by the ear .
` No , it's the way you do ; ' and feeling that his day of bondage was over , papa cast off his allegiance , tucked a child under each arm , and marched upstairs with them , kicking and screaming .
Setting them down at the nursery door , he said , shaking his finger at them in an awful manner , -- ` Wait a bit , you rascals , and see what you will get to-morrow . '
With this dark threat he vanished into his own room , and a minute after a great burst of laughter set their fears at rest .
` It was a fair bargain , so I 'm not afraid , ' said Harry stoutly .
` He kissed us good-night though he did glower at us , so I guess it was only fun , ' added Kitty .
` Hasn't it been a funny day ? '
asked Harry .
` Don't think I quite like it , everything is so turned round , ' said Kitty .
` Guess they didn't like it very well .
Hear 'em talking in there ; ' and Harry held up his finger , for a steady murmur of conversation had followed the laughter in papa and mamma's room . '
I wonder if our joke will do any good ? '
said Kitty thoughtfully .
` Wait and see , ' answered Aunt Betsey , popping her night-capped head out of her room with a nod and a smile that sent them to bed full of hope for the future .
