Margaret always maintains that it was a direct inspiration of Providence that took her across the street to see Aunt Beatrice that night .
And Aunt Beatrice believes that it was too .
But the truth of the matter is that Margaret was feeling very unhappy , and went over to talk to Aunt Beatrice as the only alternative to a fit of crying .
Margaret 's unhappiness has nothing further to do with this story , so it may be dismissed with the remark that it did not amount to much , in spite of Margaret 's tragical attitude , and was dissipated at once and forever by the arrival of a certain missent letter the next day .
Aunt Beatrice was alone .
Her brother and his wife had gone to the `` at home '' which Mrs. Cunningham was giving that night in honour of the Honourable John Reynolds , M.P. .
The children were upstairs in bed , and Aunt Beatrice was darning their stockings , a big basketful of which loomed up aggressively on the table beside her .
Or , to speak more correctly , she had been darning them .
Just when Margaret was sliding across the icy street Aunt Beatrice was bent forward in her chair , her hands over her face , while soft , shrinking little sobs shook her from head to foot .
When Margaret 's imperative knock came at the front door , Aunt Beatrice started guiltily and wished earnestly that she had waited until she went to bed before crying , if cry she must .
She knew Margaret 's knock , and she did not want her gay young niece , of all people in the world , to suspect the fact or the cause of her tears .
`` I hope she won't notice my eyes , '' she thought , as she hastily plumped a big ugly dark-green shade , with an almond-eyed oriental leering from it , over the lamp , before going out to let Margaret in .
Margaret did not notice at first .
She was too deeply absorbed in her own troubles to think that anyone else in the world could be miserable too .
She curled up in the deep easy-chair by the fire , and clasped her hands behind her curly head with a sigh of physical comfort and mental unhappiness , while Aunt Beatrice , warily sitting with her back to the light , took up her work again .
`` You didn't go to Mrs. Cunningham 's ` at home , ' Auntie , '' said Margaret lazily , feeling that she must make some conversation to justify her appearance .
`` You were invited , weren't you ? ''
Aunt Beatrice nodded .
The hole she was darning in the knee of Willie Hayden 's stocking must be done very carefully .
Mrs. George Hayden was particular about such matters .
Perhaps this was why Aunt Beatrice did not speak .
`` Why didn't you go ? ''
asked Margaret absently , wondering why there had been no letter for her that morning -- and this was the third day too !
Could Gilbert be ill ?
Or was he flirting with some other girl and forgetting her ?
Margaret swallowed a big lump in her throat , and resolved that she would go home next week -- no , she wouldn't , either -- if he was as hateful and fickle as that -- what was Aunt Beatrice saying ?
`` Well , I 'm -- I 'm not used to going to parties now , my dear .
And the truth is I have no dress fit to wear .
At least Bella said so , because the party was to be a very fashionable affair .
She said my old grey silk wouldn't do at all .
Of course she knows .
She had to have a new dress for it , and , we couldn't both have that .
George couldn't afford it these hard times .
And , as Bella said , it would be very foolish of me to get an expensive dress that would be no use to me afterward .
But it doesn't matter .
And , of course , somebody had to stay with the children . ''
`` Of course , '' assented Margaret dreamily .
Mrs. Cunningham 's `` at home '' was of no particular interest .
The guests were all middle-aged people whom the M.P. had known in his boyhood and Margaret , in her presumptuous youth , thought it would be a very prosy affair , although it had made quite a sensation in quiet little Murraybridge , where people still called an `` at home '' a party plain and simple .
`` I saw Mr. Reynolds in church Sunday afternoon , '' she went on .
`` He is very fine-looking , I think .
Did you ever meet him ? ''
`` I used to know him very well long ago , '' answered Aunt Beatrice , bowing still lower over her work .
`` He used to live down in Wentworth , you know , and he visited his married sister here very often .
He was only a boy at that time .
Then -- he went out to British Columbia and -- and -- we never heard much more about him . ''
`` He 's very rich and owns dozens of mines and railroads and things like that , '' said Margaret , `` and he 's a member of the Dominion Parliament , too .
They say he 's one of the foremost men in the House and came very near getting a portfolio in the new cabinet .
I like men like that .
They are so interesting .
wouldn't it be awfully nice and complimentary to have one of them in love with you ?
Is he married ? ''
`` I -- I don't know , '' said Aunt Beatrice faintly .
`` I have never heard that he was . ''
`` There , you've run the needle into your finger , '' said Margaret sympathetically .
`` It 's of no consequence , '' said Aunt Beatrice hastily .
She wiped away the drop of blood and went on with her work .
Margaret watched her dreamily .
What lovely hair Aunt Beatrice had !
It was so thick and glossy , with warm bronze tones where the lamp-light fell on it under that hideous weird old shade .
But Aunt Beatrice wore it in such an unbecoming way .
Margaret idly wondered if she would comb her hair straight back and prim when she was thirty-five .
She thought it very probable if that letter did not come tomorrow .
From Aunt Beatrice 's hair Margaret 's eyes fell to Aunt Beatrice 's face .
She gave a little jump .
Had Aunt Beatrice been crying ?
Margaret sat bolt upright .
`` Aunt Beatrice , did you want to go to that party ? ''
she demanded explosively .
`` Now tell me the truth . ''
`` I did , '' said Aunt Beatrice weakly .
Margaret 's sudden attack fairly startled the truth out of her .
`` It is very silly of me , I know , but I did want to go .
I didn't care about a new dress .
I 'd have been quite willing to wear my grey silk , and I could have fixed the sleeves .
What difference would it have made ?
Nobody would ever have noticed me , but Bella thought it wouldn't do . ''
She paused long enough to give a little sob which she could not repress .
Margaret made use of the opportunity to exclaim violently , `` It 's a shame ! ''
`` I suppose you don't understand why I wanted to go to this particular party so much , '' went on Aunt Beatrice shyly .
`` I'll tell you why -- if you won't laugh at me .
I wanted to see John Reynolds -- not to talk to him -- oh , I dare say he wouldn't remember me -- but just to see him .
Long ago -- fifteen years ago -- we were engaged .
And -- and -- I loved him so much then , Margaret . ''
`` You poor dear ! ''
said Margaret sympathetically .
She reached over and patted her aunt 's hand .
She thought that this little bit of romance , long hidden and unsuspected , blossoming out under her eyes , was charming .
In her interest she quite forgot her own pet grievance .
`` Yes -- and then we quarrelled .
It was a dreadful quarrel and it was about such a trifle .
We parted in anger and he went away .
He never came back .
It was all my fault .
Well , it is all over long ago and everybody has forgotten .
I -- I don't mind it now .
But I just wanted to see him once more and then come quietly away . ''
`` Aunt Beatrice , you are going to that party yet , '' said Margaret decisively .
`` Oh , it is impossible , my dear . ''
`` No , it isn't .
Nothing is impossible when I make up my mind .
You must go .
I'll drag you there by main force if it comes to that .
Oh , I have such a jolly plan , Auntie .
You know my black and yellow dinner dress -- no , you don't either , for I've never worn it here .
The folks at home all said it was too severe for me -- and so it is .
Nothing suits me but the fluffy , chuffy things with a tilt to them .
Gil -- er -- I mean -- well , yes , Gilbert always declared that dress made me look like a cross between an unwilling nun and a ballet girl , so I took a dislike to it .
But it 's as lovely as a dream .
Oh , when you see it your eyes will stick out .
You must wear it tonight .
It 's just your style , and I 'm sure it will fit you , for our figures are so much alike . ''
`` But it is too late . '' ''
'T isn't .
It 's not more than half an hour since Uncle George and Aunt Bella went .
I'll have you ready in a twinkling . ''
`` But the fire -- and the children ! ''
`` I'll stay here and look after both .
I won't burn the house down , and if the twins wake up I'll give them -- what is it you give them -- soothing syrup ?
So go at once and get you ready , while I fly over for the dress .
I'll fix your hair up when I get back . ''
Margaret was gone before Aunt Beatrice could speak again .
Her niece 's excitement seized hold of her too .
She flung the stockings into the basket and the basket into the closet .
`` I will go -- and I won't do another bit of darning tonight .
I hate it -- I hate it -- I hate it !
Oh , how much good it does me to say it ! ''
When Margaret came flying up the stairs Aunt Beatrice was ready save for hair and dress .
Margaret cast the gown on the bed , revealing all its beauty of jetted lace and soft yellow silk with a dextrous sweep of her arm .
Aunt Beatrice gave a little cry of admiration .
`` isn't it lovely ? ''
demanded Margaret .
`` And I've brought you my opera cape and my fascinator and my black satin slippers with the cunningest gold buckles , and some sweet pale yellow roses that Uncle Ned gave me yesterday .
Oh , Aunt Beatrice !
What magnificent arms and shoulders you have !
They 're like marble .
Mine are so scrawny I 'm just ashamed to have people know they belong to me . ''
Margaret 's nimble fingers were keeping time with her tongue .
Aunt Beatrice 's hair went up as if by magic into soft puffs and waves and twists , and a golden rose was dropped among the bronze masses .
Then the lovely dress was put on and pinned and looped and pulled until it fell into its simple , classical lines around the tall , curving figure .
Margaret stepped back and clapped her hands admiringly .
`` Oh , Auntie , you 're beautiful !
Now I'll pop down for the cloak and fascinator .
I left them hanging by the fire . ''
When Margaret had gone Aunt Beatrice caught up the lamp and tiptoed shamefacedly across the hall to the icy-cold spare room .
In the long mirror she saw herself reflected from top to toe -- or was it herself !
Could it be -- that gracious woman with the sweet eyes and flushed cheeks , with rounded arms gleaming through their black laces and the cluster of roses nestling against the warm white flesh of the shoulder ?
`` I do look nice , '' she said aloud , with a little curtsey to the radiant reflection .
`` It is all the dress , I know .
I feel like a queen in it -- no , like a girl again -- and that 's better . ''
Margaret went to Mrs. Cunningham 's door with her .
`` How I wish I could go in and see the sensation you'll make , Aunt Beatrice , '' she whispered .
`` You dear , silly child !
It 's just the purple and fine linen , '' laughed Aunt Beatrice .
But she did not altogether think so , and she rang the doorbell unquailingly .
In the hall Mrs. Cunningham herself came beamingly to greet her .
`` My dear Beatrice !
I 'm so glad .
Bella said you could not come because you had a headache . ''
`` My headache got quite better after they left , and so I thought I would get ready and come , even if it were rather late , '' said Beatrice glibly , wondering if Sapphira had ever worn a black-and-yellow dress , and if so , might not her historic falsehood be traced to its influence ?
When they came downstairs together , Beatrice , statuesque and erect in her trailing draperies , and Mrs. Cunningham secretly wondering where on earth Beatrice Hayden had got such a magnificent dress and what she had done to herself to make her look as she did -- a man came through the hall .
At the foot of the stairs they met .
He put out his hand .
`` Beatrice !
It must be Beatrice !
How little you have changed ! ''
Mrs. Cunningham was not particularly noted in Murraybridge for her tact , but she had a sudden visitation of the saving grace at that moment , and left the two alone .
Beatrice put her hand into the M.P. 's .
`` I am glad to see you , '' she said simply , looking up at him .
She could not say that he had not changed , for there was little in this tall , broad-shouldered man of the world , with grey glints in his hair , to suggest the slim , boyish young lover whose image she had carried in her heart all the long years .
But the voice , though deeper and mellower , was the same , and the thin , clever mouth that went up at one corner and down at the other in a humorous twist ; and one little curl of reddish hair fell over his forehead away from its orderly fellows , just as it used to when she had loved to poke her fingers through it ; and , more than all , the deep-set grey eyes looking down into her blue ones were unchanged .
Beatrice felt her heart beating to her fingertips .
`` I thought you were not coming , '' he said .
`` I expected to meet you here and I was horribly disappointed .
I thought the bitterness of that foolish old quarrel must be strong enough to sway you yet . ''
`` didn't Bella tell you I had a headache ? ''
faltered Beatrice .
`` Bella ?
Oh , your brother 's wife !
I wasn't talking to her .
I've been sulking in corners ever since I concluded you were not coming .
How beautiful you are , Beatrice !
you'll let an old friend say that much , won't you ? ''
Beatrice laughed softly .
She had forgotten for years that she was beautiful , but the sweet old knowledge had come back to her again .
She could not help knowing that he spoke the simple truth , but she said mirthfully , `` you've learned to flatter since the old days , haven't you ?
don't you remember you used to tell me I was too thin to be pretty ?
But I suppose a bit of blarney is a necessary ingredient in the composition of an M.P. '' He was still holding her hand .
With a glance of dissatisfaction at the open parlour door , he drew her away to the little room at the end of the hall , which Mrs. Cunningham , for reasons known only to herself , called her library .
`` Come in here with me , '' he said masterfully .
`` I want to have a long talk with you before the other people get hold of you . ''
When Beatrice got home from the party ten minutes before her brother and his wife , Margaret was sitting Turk fashion in the big armchair , with her eyes very wide open and owlish .
`` You dear girlie , were you asleep ? ''
asked Aunt Beatrice indulgently .
Margaret nodded .
`` Yes , and I've let the fire go out .
I hope you 're not cold .
I must run before Aunt Bella gets here , or she'll scold .
Had a nice time ? ''
`` Delightful .
You were a dear to lend me this dress .
It was so funny to see Bella staring at it . ''
When Margaret had put on her hat and jacket she went as far as the street door , and then tiptoed back to the sitting-room .
Aunt Beatrice was leaning back in the armchair , with a drooping rose held softly against her lips , gazing dreamily into the dull red embers .
`` Auntie , '' said Margaret contritely , `` I can't go home without confessing , although I know it is a heinous offence to interrupt the kind of musing that goes with dying embers and faded roses in the small hours .
But it would weigh on my conscience all night if I didn't .
I was asleep , but I wakened up just before you came in and went to the window .
I didn't mean to spy upon anyone -- but that street was bright as day !
And if you will let an M.P. kiss you on the doorstep in glaring moonlight , you must expect to be seen . ''
`` I wouldn't have cared if there had been a dozen onlookers , '' said Aunt Beatrice frankly , `` and I don't believe he would either . ''
Margaret threw up her hands .
`` Well , my conscience is clear , at least .
And remember , Aunt Beatrice , I 'm to be bridesmaid -- I insist upon that .
And , oh , won't you ask me to visit you when you go down to Ottawa next winter ?
I 'm told it 's such a jolly place when the House is in session .
And you'll need somebody to help you entertain , you know .
The wife of a cabinet minister has to do lots of that .
But I forgot -- he isn't a cabinet minister yet .
But he will be , of course .
Promise that you'll have me , Aunt Beatrice , promise quick .
I hear Uncle George and Aunt Bella coming . ''
Aunt Beatrice promised .
Margaret flew to the door .
`` You 'd better keep that dress , '' she called back softly , as she opened it .
