Down by the sea lived Ben the fisherman , with his wife , and little son , who was called Dandelion , because he wore yellow pinafores , and had curly , yellow hair , that covered his head with a golden fuzz .
A very happy family , for Ben was kind and industrious , Hetty , his wife , a cheerful , busy creature , and Dandelion the jolliest three-year-old baby who ever made sand-pies and paddled on the beach .
But one day a great trouble came to them .
Ben and his fellow-fishermen sailed blithely away as usual , and Hetty watched the fleet of white-winged boats out of the bay , thinking how pretty they looked with the sunshine on them ; while Dandelion stood clapping his chubby hands , and saying , as he always did , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
But Daddy did not come soon that time ; for a great storm arose , and when some of the boats came scudding home at nightfall , Ben's was not among them .
All night the gale raged , and in the morning , Ben's boat lay empty and broken on the shore .
His mates shook their heads when they saw the wreck , and drew their rough hands over their eyes ; for Ben was a good seaman , and they knew he never would desert his boat alive .
They looked for him far and wide , but could hear nothing of him , and felt sure that he had perished in the storm .
They tried to comfort poor Hetty , but she would not be comforted .
Her heart seemed broken ; and if it had not been for her baby , her neighbours feared that she would have gone to join Ben in his grave under the sea .
Dandelion didn't understand why every one was so sad , and why his father stayed away so long ; but he never lost his cheerfulness , never gave up hoping , or stopped saying , with a contented smile , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
The sunshiny little face was Hetty's only comfort .
The sight of the fuzzy yellow head , bobbing round the house , alone made it endurable ; and the touch of the loving baby hands kept her from the despair which made her long to end her sorrow in the sea .
People don't believe in fairies now-a-days ; nevertheless , good spirits still exist , and help us in our times of trouble , better even than the little people we used to read about .
One of these household spirits is called Love , and it took the shape of Dandelion to comfort poor Hetty .
Another is called Labor : a beautiful , happy spirit this is , and it did its part so well that there was little time for bitter thoughts or vain regrets ; for Hetty's spinning-wheel must go , in order to earn bread for Dandelion , whose mouth was always ready for food , like a hungry bird's .
Busily hummed the wheel : and , as it flew , it seemed to catch an echo of the baby's cheerful song , saying , over and over , ` Daddy tummin ' soon , ' till Hetty stopped crying as she worked , and listened to the cheerful whirr .
` Yes , I shall see my good Ben again , if I wait patiently .
Baby takes comfort in saying that , and I will , too ; though the poor dear will get tired of it soon , ' she said .
But Dandelion didn't get tired .
He firmly believed what he said , and nothing could change his mind .
He had been much troubled at seeing the boat laid up on the beach all broken and dismantled , but his little mind couldn't take in the idea of shipwreck and death ; so , after thinking it over , he decided that Daddy was waiting somewhere for a new boat to be sent to bring him home .
This idea was so strong that the child gathered together his store of toy-boats , -- for he had many , as they were his favourite plaything , -- and launched them , one after another , telling them to find his father , and bring him home .
As Dandelion was not allowed to play on the beach , except at low tide , the little boats sailed safely away on the receding waves , and the child was sure that some of them would get safely into the distant port where Daddy was waiting .
All the boats were launched at last , all sailed bravely away ; but none came back , and little Dandy was much disappointed .
He babbled about it to himself ; told the peeps and the horse-shoes , the snails and the lobsters , of his trouble ; begged the gulls to fly away and find Daddy ; and every windy night when the sea dashed on the shore and the shutters rattled , he would want the lamp put in the window , as it used to be when they expected Ben , and tried to make home look cheerful , even before he got there .
Hetty used to humour the child , though it made her heart ache to know that the light shone in vain .
At such times Dandy would prance about the room in his little shirt , and talk about Daddy as happily as if long months had not passed without bringing him back .
When fairly in his big , old-fashioned cradle , the boy would lie , looking more like a dandelion than ever , in his yellow flannel night-gown , playing with his toes , or rocking himself to and fro , calling the cradle his boat , and blithely telling his mother that he was sailing ` far way to find Daddy . '
When tired of play , he lay still and asked her to sing to him .
She had no heart for the gay old sea-songs she used to sing for lullabies ; so she sung hymns in her soft , motherly voice , till the blue eyes closed and the golden head lay still , looking so pretty , with the circle of bright hair above the rosy face .
` My little saint , ' Hetty called him ; and though she often wept sadly as she watched him , the bitterness of her grief passed away , and a patient hope came to her ; for the child's firm faith impressed her deeply , the pious music of the sweet old hymns comforted her sore heart , and daily labor kept her cheerful in spite of herself .
The neighbours wondered at the change that came over her , but she could not explain it ; and no one knew that the three good spirits called Love , Labor , and Hope , were working their pleasant miracles .
Six long months went by , and no one ever thought of seeing Ben again , -- no one but his little son , who still watched for him here , and his wife , who waited to meet him hereafter .
One bright spring day something happened .
The house was as tidy as ever ; the wheel hummed briskly as Hetty sung softly to herself with a cheerful face , though there were white hairs among the brown , and her eyes had a thoughtful , absent look at times .
Dandelion , more chubby and cheery than ever , sat at her feet , with the sunshine making a golden glory of his yellow hair , as he tried his new boat in the tub of water his mother kept for her little sailor , or tugged away with his fat fingers at a big needle which he was trying to pull through a bit of cloth intended for a sail .
The faithful little soul had not forgotten his father , but had come to the conclusion that the reason his boats never prospered was because they hadn't large enough sails ; so he was intent on rigging a new boat lately given him , with a sail that could not fail to waft Ben safely home .
With his mouth puckered up , his downy eyebrows knit , and both hands pulling at the big needle , he was so wrapped in his work that he did not mind the stopping of the wheel when Hetty fell into a reverie , thinking of the happy time when she and Ben should meet again .
Sitting so , neither heard a step come softly over the sand ; neither saw an eager , brown face peer in at the door ; and neither knew for a minute , that Ben was watching them , with a love and longing in his heart that made him tremble like a woman .
Dandelion saw him first ; for , as he pulled the thread through with a triumphant jerk , the small sailmaker lost his balance , tumbled over , and lay staring up at the tall man with his blue eyes so wide open , they looked as if they would never shut again .
All of a sudden , he shouted , with a joyful shout , ` Daddy's tummin ' ! '
and the next instant , vanished , ship and all , in the arms of the man who wore the rough jacket .
Over went the spinning-wheel , as Hetty vanished likewise ; and for a time there was nothing but sobbing and kissing , clinging , and thanking Heaven for its kindness to them .
When they grew quieter , and Ben got into his old chair , with his wife on one knee and his boy on the other , he told them how he was wrecked in the gale , picked up by an outward-bound ship , and only able to get back after months of sickness and delay .
` My boaty fetched him , ' said Dandelion , feeling that every thing had turned out just as he expected .
` So it did , my precious ; leastways , your faith helped , I haven't a doubt , ' cried Hetty , hugging the curly headed prophet close , as she told Ben all that had happened .
Ben didn't say much , but a few great tears rolled down the rough blue jacket , as he looked from the queer sail with its two big stitches to the little son , whose love , he firmly believed , had kept him safe through many dangers and brought him home at last .
When the fine new boat was built , no one thought it strange that Ben named it ` Dandelion ; ' no one laughed at the little sail which always hung over the fire-place in the small house : and long years after , when Ben was an old man , and sat by the door with his grand-children on his knee , the story which always pleased them best was that which ended with the funny words , ` Daddy tummin ' soon . '
