Once upon a time there lived a respectable young tailor called Labakan , who worked for a clever master in Alexandria .
No one could call Labakan either stupid or lazy , for he could work extremely well and quickly -- when he chose ; but there was something not altogether right about him .
Sometimes he would stitch away as fast as if he had a red-hot needle and a burning thread , and at other times he would sit lost in thought , and with such a queer look about him that his fellow-workmen used to say , ` Labakan has got on his aristocratic face today . '
On Fridays he would put on his fine robe which he had bought with the money he had managed to save up , and go to the mosque .
As he came back , after prayers , if he met any friend who said ` Good-day , ' or ` How are you , friend Labakan ? '
he would wave his hand graciously or nod in a condescending way ; and if his master happened to say to him , as he sometimes did , ` Really , Labakan , you look like a prince , ' he was delighted , and would answer , ` Have you noticed it too ? '
or ` Well , so I have long thought . '
Things went on like this for some time , and the master put up with Labakan's absurdities because he was , on the whole , a good fellow and a clever workman .
One day , the sultan's brother happened to be passing through Alexandria , and wanted to have one of his state robes altered , so he sent for the master tailor , who handed the robe over to Labakan as his best workman .
In the evening , when every one had left the workshop and gone home , a great longing drove Labakan back to the place where the royal robe hung .
He stood a long time gazing at it , admiring the rich material and the splendid embroidery in it .
At last he could hold out no longer .
He felt he must try it on , and lo !
and behold , it fitted as though it had been made for him .
` Am not I as good a prince as any other ? '
he asked himself , as he proudly paced up and down the room .
` Has not the master often said that I seemed born to be a prince ? '
It seemed to him that he must be the son of some unknown monarch , and at last he determined to set out at once and travel in search of his proper rank .
He felt as if the splendid robe had been sent him by some kind fairy , and he took care not to neglect such a precious gift .
He collected all his savings , and , concealed by the darkness of the night , he passed through the gates of Alexandria .
The new prince excited a good deal of curiosity where ever he went , for his splendid robe and majestic manner did not seem quite suitable to a person travelling on foot .
If anyone asked questions , he only replied with an important air of mystery that he had his own reasons for not riding .
However , he soon found out that walking made him ridiculous , so at last he bought a quiet , steady old horse , which he managed to get cheap .
One day , as he was ambling along upon Murva , that was the horse's name , a horseman overtook him and asked leave to join him , so that they might both beguile the journey with pleasant talk .
The newcomer was a bright , cheerful , good-looking young man , who soon plunged into conversation and asked many questions .
He told Labakan that his own name was Omar , that he was a nephew of Elfi Bey , and was travelling in order to carry out a command given him by his uncle on his death bed .
Labakan was not quite so open in his confidences , but hinted that he too was of noble birth and was travelling for pleasure .
The two young men took a fancy to each other and rode on together .
On the second day of their journey Labakan questioned Omar as to the orders he had to carry out , and to his surprise heard this tale .
Elfi Bey , Pacha of Cairo , had brought up Omar from his earliest childhood , and the boy had never known his parents .
On his deathbed Elfi Bey called Omar to him , and then told him that he was not his nephew , but the son of a great king , who , having been warned of coming dangers by his astrologers , had sent the young prince away and made a vow not to see him till his twenty-second birthday .
Elfi Bey did not tell Omar his father's name , but expressly desired him to be at a great pillar four days ' journey east of Alexandria on the fourth day of the coming month , on which day he would be twenty-two years old .
Here he would meet some men , to whom he was to hand a dagger which Elfi Bey gave him , and to say ` Here am I for whom you seek . '
If they answered : ` Praised be the Prophet who has preserved you , ' he was to follow them , and they would take him to his father .
Labakan was greatly surprised and interested by this story , but after hearing it he could not help looking on Prince Omar with envious eyes , angry that his friend should have the position he himself longed so much for .
He began to make comparisons between the prince and himself , and was obliged to confess that he was a fine-looking young man with very good manners and a pleasant expression .
At the same time , he felt sure that had he been in the prince's place any royal father might have been glad to own him .
These thoughts haunted him all day , and he dreamt them all night .
He woke very early , and as he saw Omar sleeping quietly , with a happy smile on his face , a wish arose in his mind to take by force or by cunning the things which an unkind fate had denied him .
The dagger which was to act as a passport was sticking in Omar's girdle .
Labakan drew it gently out , and hesitated for a moment whether or not to plunge it into the heart of the sleeping prince .
However , he shrank from the idea of murder , so he contented himself with placing the dagger in his own belt , and , saddling Omar's swift horse for himself , was many miles away before the prince woke up to realise his losses .
For two days Labakan rode on steadily , fearing lest , after all , Omar might reach the meeting place before him .
At the end of the second day he saw the great pillar at a distance .
It stood on a little hill in the middle of a plain , and could be seen a very long way off .
Labakan's heart beat fast at the sight .
Though he had had some time in which to think over the part he meant to play his conscience made him rather uneasy .
However , the thought that he must certainly have been born to be a king supported him , and he bravely rode on .
The neighbourhood was quite bare and desert , and it was a good thing that the new prince had brought food for some time with him , as two days were still wanting till the appointed time .
Towards the middle of the next day he saw a long procession of horses and camels coming towards him .
It halted at the bottom of the hill , and some splendid tents were pitched .
Everything looked like the escort of some great man .
Labakan made a shrewd guess that all these people had come here on his account ; but he checked his impatience , knowing that only on the fourth day could his wishes be fulfilled .
The first rays of the rising sun woke the happy tailor .
As he began to saddle his horse and prepare to ride to the pillar , he could not help having some remorseful thoughts of the trick he had played and the blighted hopes of the real prince .
But the die was cast , and his vanity whispered that he was as fine looking a young man as the proudest king might wish his son to be , and that , moreover , what had happened had happened .
With these thoughts he summoned up all his courage sprang on his horse , and in less than a quarter of an hour was at the foot of the hill .
Here he dismounted , tied the horse to a bush , and , drawing out Prince Omar's dagger climbed up the hill .
At the foot of the pillar stood six men round a tall and stately person .
His superb robe of cloth of gold was girt round him by a white cashmere shawl , and his white , richly jewelled turban showed that he was a man of wealth and high rank .
Labakan went straight up to him , and , bending low , handed him the dagger , saying : ` Here am I whom you seek . '
` Praised be the Prophet who has preserved you !
replied the old man with tears of joy .
'Em brace me , my dear son Omar ! '
The proud tailor was deeply moved by these solemn words , and with mingled shame and joy sank into the old king's arms .
But his happiness was not long unclouded .
As he raised his head he saw a horseman who seemed trying to urge a tired or unwilling horse across the plain .
Only too soon Labakan recognised his own old horse , Murva , and the real Prince Omar , but having once told a lie he made up his mind not to own his deceit .
At last the horseman reached the foot of the hill .
Here he flung himself from the saddle and hurried up to the pillar .
` Stop ! '
he cried , ` whoever you may be , and do not let a disgraceful impostor take you in .
My name is Omar , and let no one attempt to rob me of it . '
This turn of affairs threw the standers-by into great surprise .
The old king in particular seemed much moved as he looked from one face to the other .
At last Labakan spoke with forced calmness , ` Most gracious lord and father , do not let yourself be deceived by this man .
As far as I know , he is a half-crazy tailor's apprentice from Alexandria , called Labakan , who really deserves more pity than anger . '
These words infuriated the prince .
Foaming with rage , he tried to press towards Labakan , but the attendants threw themselves upon him and held him fast , whilst the king said , ` Truly , my dear son , the poor fellow is quite mad .
Let him be bound and placed on a dromedary .
Perhaps we may be able to get some help for him . '
The prince's first rage was over , and with tears he cried to the king , ` My heart tells me that you are my father , and in my mother's name I entreat you to hear me . '
` Oh !
heaven forbid ! '
was the reply .
` He is talking nonsense again .
How can the poor man have got such notions into his head ? '
With these words the king took Labakan's arm to support him down the hill .
They both mounted richly caparisoned horses and rode across the plain at the head of their followers .
The unlucky prince was tied hand and foot , and fastened on a dromedary , a guard riding on either side and keeping a sharp look-out on him .
The old king was Sached , Sultan of the Wachabites .
For many years he had had no children , but at length the son he had so long wished for was born .
But the sooth-sayers and magicians whom he consulted as to the child's future all said that until he was twenty-two years old he stood in danger of being injured by an enemy .
So , to make all safe , the sultan had confided the prince to his trusty friend Elfi Bey , and deprived himself of the happiness of seeing him for twenty-two years .
All this the sultan told Labakan , and was much pleased by his appearance and dignified manner .
When they reached their own country they were received with every sign of joy , for the news of the prince's safe return had spread like wildfire , and every town and village was decorated , whilst the inhabitants thronged to greet them with cries of joy and thankfulness .
All this filled Labakan's proud heart with rapture , whilst the unfortunate Omar followed in silent rage and despair .
At length they arrived in the capital , where the public rejoicings were grander and more brilliant than anywhere else .
The queen awaited them in the great hall of the palace , surrounded by her entire court .
It was getting dark , and hundreds of coloured hanging lamps were lit to turn night into day .
The brightest hung round the throne on which the queen sat , and which stood above four steps of pure gold inlaid with great amethysts .
The four greatest nobles in the kingdom held a canopy of crimson silk over the queen , and the Sheik of Medina fanned her with a peacock-feather fan .
In this state she awaited her husband and her son .
She , too , had not seen Omar since his birth , but so many dreams had shown her what he would look like that she felt she would know him among a thousand .
And now the sound of trumpets and drums and of shouts and cheers outside announced the long looked for moment .
The doors flew open , and between rows of low-bending courtiers and servants the king approached the throne , leading his pretended son by the hand .
` Here , ' said he , ` is he for whom you have been longing so many years . '
But the queen interrupted him , ` That is not my son ! '
she cried .
` That is not the face the Prophet has shown me in my dreams ! '
Just as the king was about to reason with her , the door was thrown violently open , and Prince Omar rushed in , followed by his keepers , whom he had managed to get away from .
He flung himself down before the throne , panting out , ` Here will I die ; kill me at once , cruel father , for I can not bear this shame any longer . '
Everyone pressed round the unhappy man , and the guards were about to seize him , when the queen , who at first was dumb with surprise , sprang up from her throne .
` Hold ! '
cried she .
` This and no other is the right one ; this is the one whom my eyes have never yet seen , but whom my heart recognises . '
The guards had stepped back , but the king called to them in a furious voice to secure the madman .
` It is I who must judge , ' he said in tones of command ; ` and this matter can not be decided by women's dreams , but by certain unmistakable signs .
This one ' , pointing to Labakan , ` is my son , for it was he who brought me the token from my friend Elfi -- the dagger . '
` He stole it from me , ' shrieked Omar ; ` he betrayed my unsuspicious confidence . '
But the king would not listen to his son's voice , for he had always been accustomed to depend on his own judgment .
He let the unhappy Omar be dragged from the hall , whilst he himself retired with Labakan to his own rooms , full of anger with the queen his wife , in spite of their many years of happy life together .
The queen , on her side , was plunged in grief , for she felt certain that an impostor had won her husband's heart and taken the place of her real son .
When the first shock was over she began to think how she could manage to convince the king of his mistake .
Of course it would be a difficult matter , as the man who declared he was Omar had produced the dagger as a token , besides talking of all sorts of things which happened when he was a child .
She called her oldest and wisest ladies about her and asked their advice , but none of them had any to give .
At last one very clever old woman said : ` Did not the young man who brought the dagger call him whom your majesty believes to be your son Labakan , and say he was a crazy tailor ? '
` Yes , ' replied the queen ; ` but what of that ? '
` Might it not be , ' said the old lady , ` that the impostor has called your real son by his own name ?
If this should be the case , I know of a capital way to find out the truth . '
And she whispered some words to the queen , who seemed much pleased , and went off at once to see the king .
Now the queen was a very wise woman , so she pretended to think she might have made a mistake , and only begged to be allowed to put a test to the two young men to prove which was the real prince .
The king , who was feeling much ashamed of the rage he had been in with his dear wife , consented at once , and she said : ` No doubt others would make them ride or shoot , or something of that sort , but every one learns these things .
I wish to set them a task which requires sharp wits and clever hands , and I want them to try which of them can best make a kaftan and pair of trousers . '
The king laughed .
` No , no , that will never do .
Do you suppose my son would compete with that crazy tailor as to which could make the best clothes ?
Oh , dear , no , that won't do at all . '
But the queen claimed his promise , and as he was a man of his word the king gave in at last .
He went to his son and begged that he would humour his mother , who had set her heart on his making a kaftan .
The worthy Labakan laughed to himself .
` If that is all she wants , ' thought he , ` her majesty will soon be pleased to own me . '
Two rooms were prepared , with pieces of material , scissors , needles and threads , and each young man was shut up in one of them .
The king felt rather curious as to what sort of garment his son would make , and the queen , too , was very anxious as to the result of her experiment .
On the third day they sent for the two young men and their work .
Labakan came first and spread out his kaftan before the eyes of the astonished king .
` See , father , ' he said ; ` see , my honoured mother , if this is not a masterpiece of work .
I'll bet the court tailor himself can not do better .
The queen smiled and turned to Omar : ` And what have you done , my son ? '
Impatiently he threw the stuff and scissors down on the floor . '
I have been taught how to manage a horse , to draw a sword , and to throw a lance some sixty paces , but I never learnt to sew , and such a thing would have been thought beneath the notice of the pupil of Elfi Bey , the ruler of Cairo . '
` Ah , true son of your father , ' cried the queen ; ` if only I might embrace you and call you son !
Forgive me , my lord and husband , ' she added , turning to the king , ` for trying to find out the truth in this way .
Do you not see yourself now which is the prince and which the tailor ?
Certainly this kaftan is a very fine one , but I should like to know what master taught this young man how to make clothes . '
The king sat deep in thought , looking now at his wife and now at Labakan , who was doing his best to hide his vexation at his own stupidity .
At last the king said : ` Even this trial does not satisfy me ; but happily I know of a sure way to discover whether or not I have been deceived . '
He ordered his swiftest horse to be saddled , mounted , and rode off alone into a forest at some little distance .
Here lived a kindly fairy called Adolzaide , who had often helped the kings of his race with her good advice , and to her he betook himself .
In the middle of the forest was a wide open space surrounded by great cedar trees , and this was supposed to be the fairy's favourite spot .
When the king reached this place he dismounted , tied his horse to the tree , and standing in the middle of the open place said : ` If it is true that you have helped my ancestors in their time of need , do not despise their descendant , but give me counsel , for that of men has failed me . '
He had hardly finished speaking when one of the cedar trees opened , and a veiled figure all dressed in white stepped from it . '
I know your errand , King Sached , ' she said ; ` it is an honest one , and I will give you my help .
Take these two little boxes and let the two men who claim to be your son choose between them .
I know that the real prince will make no mistake . '
She then handed him two little boxes made of ivory set with gold and pearls .
On the lid of each , which the king vainly tried to open , was an inscription in diamonds .
On one stood the words ` Honour and Glory , ' and on the other ` Wealth and Happiness . '
` It would be a hard choice , ' thought the king as he rode home .
He lost no time in sending for the queen and for all his court , and when all were assembled he made a sign , and Labakan was led in .
With a proud air he walked up to the throne , and kneeling down , asked : ` What does my lord and father command ? '
The king replied : ` My son , doubts have been thrown on your claim to that name .
One of these boxes contains the proofs of your birth .
Choose for yourself .
No doubt you will choose right . '
He then pointed to the ivory boxes , which were placed on two little tables near the throne .
Labakan rose and looked at the boxes .
He thought for some minutes , and then said : ` My honoured father , what can be better than the happiness of being your son , and what nobler than the riches of your love .
I choose the box with the words `` Wealth and Happiness . '' '
` We shall see presently if you have chosen the right one .
For the present take a seat there beside the Pacha of Medina , ' replied the king .
Omar was next led in , looking sad and sorrowful .
He threw himself down before the throne and asked what was the king's pleasure .
The king pointed out the two boxes to him , and he rose and went to the tables .
He carefully read the two mottoes and said : ` The last few days have shown me how uncertain is happiness and how easily riches vanish away .
Should I lose a crown by it I make my choice of `` Honour and Glory . '' '
He laid his hand on the box as he spoke , but the king signed to him to wait , and ordered Labakan to come to the other table and lay his hand on the box he had chosen .
Then the king rose from his throne , and in solemn silence all present rose too , whilst he said : ` Open the boxes , and may Allah show us the truth . '
The boxes were opened with the greatest ease .
In the one Omar had chosen lay a little gold crown and sceptre on a velvet cushion .
In Labakan's box was found -- a large needle with some thread !
The king told the two young men to bring him their boxes .
They did so .
He took the crown in his hand , and as he held it , it grew bigger and bigger , till it was as large as a real crown .
He placed it on the head of his son Omar , kissed him on the forehead , and placed him on his right hand .
Then , turning to Labakan , he said : ` There is an old proverb , `` The cobbler sticks to his last . ''
It seems as though you were to stick to your needle .
You have not deserved any mercy , but I can not be harsh on this day .
I give you your life , but I advise you to leave this country as fast as you can . '
Full of shame , the unlucky tailor could not answer .
He flung himself down before Omar , and with tears in his eyes asked : ` Can you forgive me , prince ? '
` Go in peace , ' said Omar as he raised him .
` Oh , my true son ! '
cried the king as he clasped the prince in his arms , whilst all the pachas and emirs shouted , ` Long live Prince Omar ! '
In the midst of all the noise and rejoicing Labakan slipped off with his little box under his arm .
He went to the stables , saddled his old horse , Murva , and rode out of the gate towards Alexandria .
Nothing but the ivory box with its diamond motto was left to show him that the last few weeks had not been a dream .
When he reached Alexandria he rode up to his old master's door .
When he entered the shop , his master came forward to ask what was his pleasure , but as soon as he saw who it was he called his workmen , and they all fell on Labakan with blows and angry words , till at last he fell , half fainting , on a heap of old clothes .
The master then scolded him soundly about the stolen robe , but in vain Labakan told him he had come to pay for it and offered three times its price .
They only fell to beating him again , and at last pushed him out of the house more dead than alive .
He could do nothing but remount his horse and ride to an inn .
Here he found a quiet place in which to rest his bruised and battered limbs and to think over his many misfortunes .
He fell asleep fully determined to give up trying to be great , but to lead the life of an honest workman .
Next morning he set to work to fulfil his good resolutions .
He sold his little box to a jeweller for a good price , bought a house and opened a workshop .
Then he hung up a sign with , ` Labakan , Tailor , ' over his door , and sat down to mend his own torn clothes with the very needle which had been in the ivory box .
After a while he was called away , and when he went back to his work he found a wonderful thing had happened !
The needle was sewing away all by itself and making the neatest little stitches , such as Labakan had never been able to make even at his best .
Certainly even the smallest gift of a kind fairy is of great value , and this one had yet another advantage , for the thread never came to an end , however much the needle sewed .
Labakan soon got plenty of customers .
He used to cut out the clothes , make the first stitch with the magic needle , and then leave it to do the rest .
Before long the whole town went to him , for his work was both so good and so cheap .
The only puzzle was how he could do so much , working all alone , and also why he worked with closed doors .
And so the promise on the ivory box of ` Wealth and Happiness ' came true for him , and when he heard of all the brave doings of Prince Omar , who was the pride and darling of his people and the terror of his enemies , the ex-prince thought to himself , ` After all , I am better off as a tailor , for `` Honour and Glory '' are apt to be very dangerous things . '
The Colony Of Cats Long , long ago , as far back as the time when animals spoke , there lived a community of cats in a deserted house they had taken possession of not far from a large town .
They had everything they could possibly desire for their comfort , they were well fed and well lodged , and if by any chance an unlucky mouse was stupid enough to venture in their way , they caught it , not to eat it , but for the pure pleasure of catching it .
The old people of the town related how they had heard their parents speak of a time when the whole country was so overrun with rats and mice that there was not so much as a grain of corn nor an ear of maize to be gathered in the fields ; and it might be out of gratitude to the cats who had rid the country of these plagues that their descendants were allowed to live in peace .
No one knows where they got the money to pay for everything , nor who paid it , for all this happened so very long ago .
But one thing is certain , they were rich enough to keep a servant ; for though they lived very happily together , and did not scratch nor fight more than human beings would have done , they were not clever enough to do the housework themselves , and preferred at all events to have some one to cook their meat , which they would have scorned to eat raw .
Not only were they very difficult to please about the housework , but most women quickly tired of living alone with only cats for companions , consequently they never kept a servant long ; and it had become a saying in the town , when anyone found herself reduced to her last penny : ' I will go and live with the cats , ' and so many a poor woman actually did .
Now Lizina was not happy at home , for her mother , who was a widow , was much fonder of her elder daughter ; so that often the younger one fared very badly , and had not enough to eat , while the elder could have everything she desired , and if Lizina dared to complain she was certain to have a good beating .
At last the day came when she was at the end of her courage and patience , and exclaimed to her mother and sister : ` As you hate me so much you will be glad to be rid of me , so I am going to live with the cats ! '
` Be off with you ! '
cried her mother , seizing an old broom-handle from behind the door .
Poor Lizina did not wait to be told twice , but ran off at once and never stopped till she reached the door of the cats ' house .
Their cook had left them that very morning , with her face all scratched , the result of such a quarrel with the head of the house that he had very nearly scratched out her eyes .
Lizina therefore was warmly welcomed , and she set to work at once to prepare the dinner , not without many misgivings as to the tastes of the cats , and whether she would be able to satisfy them .
Going to and fro about her work , she found herself frequently hindered by a constant succession of cats who appeared one after another in the kitchen to inspect the new servant ; she had one in front of her feet , another perched on the back of her chair while she peeled the vegetables , a third sat on the table beside her , and five or six others prowled about among the pots and pans on the shelves against the wall .
The air resounded with their purring , which meant that they were pleased with their new maid , but Lizina had not yet learned to understand their language , and often she did not know what they wanted her to do .
However , as she was a good , kindhearted girl , she set to work to pick up the little kittens which tumbled about on the floor , she patched up quarrels , and nursed on her lap a big tabby -- the oldest of the community -- which had a lame paw .
All these kindnesses could hardly fail to make a favourable impression on the cats , and it was even better after a while , when she had had time to grow accustomed to their strange ways .
Never had the house been kept so clean , the meats so well served , nor the sick cats so well cared for .
After a time they had a visit from an old cat , whom they called their father , who lived by himself in a barn at the top of the hill , and came down from time to time to inspect the little colony .
He too was much taken with Lizina , and inquired , on first seeing her : ` Are you well served by this nice , black-eyed little person ? '
and the cats answered with one voice : ` Oh , yes , Father Gatto , we have never had so good a servant ! '
At each of his visits the answer was always the same ; but after a time the old cat , who was very observant , noticed that the little maid had grown to look sadder and sadder .
` What is the matter , my child has any one been unkind to you ? '
he asked one day , when he found her crying in her kitchen .
She burst into tears and answered between her sobs : ` Oh , no !
they are all very good to me ; but I long for news from home , and I pine to see my mother and my sister . '
Old Gatto , being a sensible old cat , understood the little servant's feelings .
` You shall go home , ' he said , ` and you shall not come back here unless you please .
But first you must be rewarded for all your kind services to my children .
Follow me down into the inner cellar , where you have never yet been , for I always keep it locked and carry the key away with me . '
Lizina looked round her in astonishment as they went down into the great vaulted cellar underneath the kitchen .
Before her stood the big earthenware water jars , one of which contained oil , the other a liquid shining like gold .
` In which of these jars shall I dip you ? '
asked Father Gatto , with a grin that showed all his sharp white teeth , while his moustaches stood out straight on either side of his face .
The little maid looked at the two jars from under her long dark lashes : ` In the oil jar , ' she answered timidly , thinking to herself : ' I could not ask to be bathed in gold . '
But Father Gatto replied : ` No , no ; you have deserved something better than that . '
And seizing her in his strong paws he plunged her into the liquid gold .
Wonder of wonders !
when Lizina came out of the jar she shone from head to foot like the sun in the heavens on a fine summer's day .
Her pretty pink cheeks and long black hair alone kept their natural colour , otherwise she had become like a statue of pure gold .
Father Gatto purred loudly with satisfaction .
` Go home , ' he said , ` and see your mother and sisters ; but take care if you hear the cock crow to turn towards it ; if on the contrary the ass brays , you must look the other way . '
The little maid , having gratefully kissed the white paw of the old cat , set off for home ; but just as she got near her mother's house the cock crowed , and quickly she turned towards it .
Immediately a beautiful golden star appeared on her forehead , crowning her glossy black hair .
At the same time the ass began to bray , but Lizina took care not to look over the fence into the field where the donkey was feeding .
Her mother and sister , who were in front of their house , uttered cries of admiration and astonishment when they saw her , and their cries became still louder when Lizina , taking her handkerchief from her pocket , drew out also a handful of gold .
For some days the mother and her two daughters lived very happily together , for Lizina had given them everything she had brought away except her golden clothing , for that would not come off , in spite of all the efforts of her sister , who was madly jealous of her good fortune .
The golden star , too , could not be removed from her forehead .
But all the gold pieces she drew from her pockets had found their way to her mother and sister . '
I will go now and see what I can get out of the pussies , ' said Peppina , the elder girl , one morning , as she took Lizina's basket and fastened her pockets into her own skirt . '
I should like some of the cats ' gold for myself , ' she thought , as she left her mother's house before the sun rose .
The cat colony had not yet taken another servant , for they knew they could never get one to replace Lizina , whose loss they had not yet ceased to mourn .
When they heard that Peppina was her sister , they all ran to meet her .
` She is not the least like her , ' the kittens whispered among themselves .
` Hush , be quiet ! '
the older cats said ; ` all servants can not be pretty . '
No , decidedly she was not at all like Lizina .
Even the most reasonable and large-minded of the cats soon acknowledged that .
The very first day she shut the kitchen door in the face of the tom-cats who used to enjoy watching Lizina at her work , and a young and mischievous cat who jumped in by the open kitchen window and alighted on the table got such a blow with the rolling-pin that he squalled for an hour .
With every day that passed the household became more and more aware of its misfortune .
The work was as badly done as the servant was surly and disagreeable ; in the corners of the rooms there were collected heaps of dust ; spiders ' webs hung from the ceilings and in front of the window-panes ; the beds were hardly ever made , and the feather beds , so beloved by the old and feeble cats , had never once been shaken since Lizina left the house .
At Father Gatto's next visit he found the whole colony in a state of uproar .
` Caesar has one paw so badly swollen that it looks as if it were broken , ' said one .
` Peppina kicked him with her great wooden shoes on .
Hector has an abscess in his back where a wooden chair was flung at him ; and Agrippina's three little kittens have died of hunger beside their mother , because Peppina forgot them in their basket up in the attic .
There is no putting up with the creature -- do send her away , Father Gatto !
Lizina herself would not be angry with us ; she must know very well what her sister is like . '
` Come here , ' said Father Gatto , in his most severe tones to Peppina .
And he took her down into the cellar and showed her the same two great jars that he had showed Lizina .
` In which of these shall I dip you ? '
he asked ; and she made haste to answer : ` In the liquid gold , ' for she was no more modest than she was good and kind .
Father Gatto's yellow eyes darted fire .
` You have not deserved it , ' he uttered , in a voice like thunder , and seizing her he flung her into the jar of oil , where she was nearly suffocated .
When she came to the surface screaming and struggling , the vengeful cat seized her again and rolled her in the ash-heap on the floor ; then when she rose , dirty , blinded , and disgusting to behold , he thrust her from the door , saying : ` Begone , and when you meet a braying ass be careful to turn your head towards it . '
Stumbling and raging , Peppina set off for home , thinking herself fortunate to find a stick by the wayside with which to support herself .
She was within sight of her mother's house when she heard in the meadow on the right , the voice of a donkey loudly braying .
Quickly she turned her head towards it , and at the same time put her hand up to her forehead , where , waving like a plume , was a donkey's tail .
She ran home to her mother at the top of her speed , yelling with rage and despair ; and it took Lizina two hours with a big basin of hot water and two cakes of soap to get rid of the layer of ashes with which Father Gatto had adorned her .
As for the donkey's tail , it was impossible to get rid of that ; it was as firmly fixed on her forehead as was the golden star on Lizina's .
Their mother was furious .
She first beat Lizina unmercifully with the broom , then she took her to the mouth of the well and lowered her into it , leaving her at the bottom weeping and crying for help .
Before this happened , however , the king's son in passing the mother's house had seen Lizina sitting sewing in the parlour , and had been dazzled by her beauty .
After coming back two or three times , he at last ventured to approach the window and to whisper in the softest voice : ` Lovely maiden , will you be my bride ? '
and she had answered : ' I will . '
Next morning , when the prince arrived to claim his bride , he found her wrapped in a large white veil .
` It is so that maidens are received from their parents ' hands , ' said the mother , who hoped to make the king's son marry Peppina in place of her sister , and had fastened the donkey's tail round her head like a lock of hair under the veil .
The prince was young and a little timid , so he made no objections , and seated Peppina in the carriage beside him .
Their way led past the old house inhabited by the cats , who were all at the window , for the report had got about that the prince was going to marry the most beautiful maiden in the world , on whose forehead shone a golden star , and they knew that this could only be their adored Lizina .
As the carriage slowly passed in front of the old house , where cats from all parts of world seemed to be gathered a song burst from every throat : Mew , mew , mew !
Prince , look quick behind you !
In the well is fair Lizina , And you've got nothing but Peppina .
When he heard this the coachman , who understood the cat's language better than the prince , his master , stopped his horses and asked : ` Does your highness know what the grimalkins are saying ? '
and the song broke forth again louder than ever .
With a turn of his hand the prince threw back the veil , and discovered the puffed-up , swollen face of Peppina , with the donkey's tail twisted round her head .
` Ah , traitress ! '
he exclaimed , and ordering the horses to be turned round , he drove the elder daughter , quivering with rage , to the old woman who had sought to deceive him .
With his hand on the hilt of his sword he demanded Lizina in so terrific a voice that the mother hastened to the well to draw her prisoner out .
Lizina's clothing and her star shone so brilliantly that when the prince led her home to the king , his father , the whole palace was lit up .
Next day they were married , and lived happy ever after ; and all the cats , headed by old Father Gatto , were present at the wedding .
How To Find Out A True Friend Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who longed to have a son .
As none came , one day they made a vow at the shrine of St. James that if their prayers were granted the boy should set out on a pilgrimage as soon as he had passed his eighteenth birthday .
And fancy their delight when one evening the king returned home from hunting and saw a baby lying in the cradle .
All the people came crowding round to peep at it , and declared it was the most beautiful baby that ever was seen .
Of course that is what they always say , but this time it happened to be true .
And every day the boy grew bigger and stronger till he was twelve years old , when the king died , and he was left alone to take care of his mother .
In this way six years passed by , and his eighteenth birthday drew near .
When she thought of this the queen's heart sank within her , for he was the light of her eyes ' and how was she to send him forth to the unknown dangers that beset a pilgrim ?
So day by day she grew more and more sorrowful , and when she was alone wept bitterly .
Now the queen imagined that no one but herself knew how sad she was , but one morning her son said to her , ` Mother , why do you cry the whole day long ? '
` Nothing , nothing , my son ; there is only one thing in the world that troubles me . '
` What is that one thing ? '
asked he .
` Are you afraid your property is badly managed ?
Let me go and look into the matter . '
This pleased the queen , and he rode off to the plain country , where his mother owned great estates ; but everything was in beautiful order , and he returned with a joyful heart , and said , ` Now , mother , you can be happy again , for your lands are better managed than anyone else's I have seen .
The cattle are thriving ; the fields are thick with corn , and soon they will be ripe for harvest . '
` That is good news indeed , ' answered she ; but it did not seem to make any difference to her , and the next morning she was weeping and wailing as loudly as ever .
` Dear mother , ' said her son in despair , ` if you will not tell me what is the cause of all this misery I shall leave home and wander far through the world . '
` Ah , my son , my son , ' cried the queen , ` it is the thought that I must part from you which causes me such grief ; for before you were born we vowed a vow to St. James that when your eighteenth birthday was passed you should make a pilgrimage to his shrine , and very soon you will be eighteen , and I shall lose you .
And for a whole year my eyes will never be gladdened by the sight of you , for the shrine is far away . '
` Will it take no longer than that to reach it ? '
said he .
` Oh , don't be so wretched ; it is only dead people who never return .
As long as I am alive you may be sure I will come back to you . '
After this manner he comforted his mother , and on his eighteenth birthday his best horse was led to the door of the palace , and he took leave of the queen in these words , ` Dear mother , farewell , and by the help of fate I shall return to you as soon as I can . '
The queen burst into tears and wept sore ; then amidst her sobs she drew three apples from her pocket and held them out , saying , ` My son , take these apples and give heed unto my words .
You will need a companion in the long journey on which you are going .
If you come across a young man who pleases you beg him to accompany you , and when you get to an inn invite him to have dinner with you .
After you have eaten cut one of these apples in two unequal parts , and ask him to take one .
If he takes the larger bit , then part from him , for he is no true friend to you .
But if he takes the smaller bit treat him as your brother , and share with him all you have . '
Then she kissed her son once more , and blessed him , and let him go .
The young man rode a long way without meeting a single creature , but at last he saw a youth in the distance about the same age as himself , and he spurred his horse till he came up with the stranger , who stopped and asked : ` Where are you going , my fine fellow ? ' '
I am making a pilgrimage to the shrine of St. James , for before I was born my mother vowed that I should go forth with a thank offering on my eighteenth birthday . '
` That is my case too , ' said the stranger , ` and , as we must both travel in the same direction , let us bear each other company . '
The young man agreed to this proposal , but he took care not to get on terms of familiarity with the new comer until he had tried him with the apple .
By-and-by they reached an inn , and at sight of it the king's son said , ' I am very hungry .
Let us enter and order something to eat . '
The other consented , and they were soon sitting before a good dinner .
When they had finished the king's son drew an apple from his pocket , and cut it into a big half and a little half , and offered both to the stranger , who took the biggest bit .
` You are no friend of mine , ' thought the king's son , and in order to part company with him he pretended to be ill and declared himself unable to proceed on his journey .
` Well , I can't wait for you , ' replied the other ; ' I am in haste to push on , so farewell . '
` Farewell , ' said the king's son , glad in his heart to get rid of him so easily .
The king's son remained in the inn for some time , so as to let the young man have a good start ; them he ordered his horse and rode after him .
But he was very sociable and the way seemed long and dull by himself .
` Oh , if I could only meet with a true friend , ' he thought , ` so that I should have some one to speak to .
I hate being alone . '
Soon after he came up with a young man , who stopped and asked him , ` Where are you going , my fine fellow ? '
The king's son explained the object of his journey , and the young man answered , as the other had done , that he also was fulfilling the vow of his mother made at his birth .
` Well , we can ride on together , ' said the king's son , and the road seemed much shorter now that he had some one to talk to .
At length they reached an inn , and the king's son exclaimed , ' I am very hungry ; let us go in and get something to eat . '
When they had finished the king's son drew an apple out of his pocket and cut it in two ; he held the big bit and the little bit out to his companion , who took the big bit at once and soon ate it up .
` You are no friend of mine , ' thought the king's son , and began to declare he felt so ill he could not continue his journey .
When he had given the young man a good start he set off himself , but the way seemed even longer and duller than before .
` Oh , if I could only meet with a true friend he should be as a brother to me , ' he sighed sadly ; and as the thought passed through his mind , he noticed a youth going the same road as himself .
The youth came up to him and said , ` Which way are you going , my fine fellow ? '
And for the third time the king's son explained all about his mother's vow .
Why , that is just like me , ' cried the youth .
` Then let us ride on together , ' answered the king's son .
Now the miles seemed to slip by , for the new comer was so lively and entertaining that the king's son could not help hoping that he indeed might prove to be the true friend .
More quickly than he could have thought possible they reached an inn by the road-side , and turning to his companion the king's son said , ' I am hungry ; let us go in and have something to eat . '
So they went in and ordered dinner , and when they had finished the king's son drew out of his pocket the last apple , and cut it into two unequal parts , and held both out to the stranger .
And the stranger took the little piece , and the heart of the king's son was glad within him , for at last he had found the friend he had been looking for .
` Good youth , ' he cried , ` we will be brothers , and what is mine shall be thine , and what is thine shall be mine .
And together we will push on to the shrine , and if one of us dies on the road the other shall carry his body there . '
And the stranger agreed to all he said , and they rode forward together .
It took them a whole year to reach the shrine , and they passed through many different lands on their way .
One day they arrived tired and half-starved in a big city , and said to one another , ` Let us stay here for a little and rest before we set forth again . '
So they hired a small house close to the royal castle , and took up their abode there .
The following morning the king of the country happened to step on to his balcony , and saw the young men in the garden , and said to himself , ` Dear me , those are wonderfully handsome youths ; but one is handsomer than the other , and to him will I give my daughter to wife ; ' and indeed the king's son excelled his friend in beauty .
In order to set about his plan the king asked both the young men to dinner , and when they arrived at the castle he received them with the utmost kindness , and sent for his daughter , who was more lovely than both the sun and moon put together .
But at bed-time the king caused the other young man to be given a poisoned drink , which killed him in a few minutes , for he thought to himself , ` If his friend dies the other will forget his pilgrimage , and will stay here and marry my daughter . '
When the king's son awoke the next morning he inquired of the servants where his friend had gone , as he did not see him .
` He died suddenly last night , ' said they , ` and is to be buried immediately . '
But the king's son sprang up , and cried , ` If my friend is dead I can stay here no longer , and can not linger an hour in this house . '
` Oh , give up your journey and remain here , ' exclaimed the king , ` and you shall have my daughter for your wife . '
` No , ' answered the king's son , ' I can not stay ; but , I pray you , grant my request , and give me a good horse , and let me go in peace , and when I have fulfilled my vow then I will return and marry your daughter . '
So the king , seeing no words would move him , ordered a horse to be brought round , and the king's son mounted it , and took his dead friend before him on the saddle , and rode away .
Now the young man was not really dead , but only in a deep sleep .
When the king's son reached the shrine of St. James he got down from his horse , took his friend in his arms as if he had been a child , and laid him before the altar .
` St. James , ' he said , ' I have fulfilled the vow my parents made for me .
I have come myself to your shrine , and have brought my friend .
I place him in your hands .
Restore him to life , I pray , for though he be dead yet has he fulfilled his vow also . '
And , behold !
while he yet prayed his friend got up and stood before him as well as ever .
And both the young men gave thanks , and set their faces towards home .
When they arrived at the town where the king dwelt they entered the small house over against the castle .
The news of their coming spread very soon , and the king rejoiced greatly that the handsome young prince had come back again , and commanded great feasts to be prepared , for in a few days his daughter should marry the king's son .
The young man himself could imagine no greater happiness , and when the marriage was over they spent some months at the court making merry .
At length the king's son said , ` My mother awaits me at home , full of care and anxiety .
Here I must remain no longer , and to-morrow I will take my wife and my friend and start for home . '
And the king was content that he should do so , and gave orders to prepare for their journey .
Now in his heart the king cherished a deadly hate towards the poor young man whom he had tried to kill , but who had returned to him living , and in order to do him hurt sent him on a message to some distant spot .
` See that you are quick , ' said he , ` for your friend will await your return before he starts . '
The youth put spurs to his horse and departed , bidding the prince farewell , so that the king's message might be delivered the sooner .
As soon as he had started the king went to the chamber of the prince , and said to him , ` If you do not start immediately , you will never reach the place where you must camp for the night . ' '
I can not start without my friend , ' replied the king's son .
` Oh , he will be back in an hour , ' replied the king , ` and I will give him my best horse , so that he will be sure to catch you up . '
The king's son allowed himself to be persuaded and took leave of his father-in-law , and set out with his wife on his journey home .
Meanwhile the poor friend had been unable to get through his task in the short time appointed by the king , and when at last he returned the king said to him , ` Your comrade is a long way off by now ; you had better see if you can overtake him . '
So the young man bowed and left the king's presence , and followed after his friend on foot , for he had no horse .
Night and day he ran , till at length he reached the place where the king's son had pitched his tent , and sank down before him , a miserable object , worn out and covered with mud and dust .
But the king's son welcomed him with joy , and tended him as he would his brother .
And at last they came home again , and the queen was waiting and watching in the palace , as she had never ceased to do since her son had rode away .
She almost died of joy at seeing him again , but after a little she remembered his sick friend , and ordered a bed to be made ready and the best doctors in all the country to be sent for .
When they heard of the queen's summons they flocked from all parts , but none could cure him .
After everyone had tried and failed a servant entered and informed the queen that a strange old man had just knocked at the palace gate and declared that he was able to heal the dying youth .
Now this was a holy man , who had heard of the trouble the king's son was in , and had come to help .
It happened that at this very time a little daughter was born to the king's son , but in his distress for his friend he had hardly a thought to spare for the baby .
He could not be prevailed on to leave the sick bed , and he was bending over it when the holy man entered the room .
` Do you wish your friend to be cured ? '
asked the new comer of the king's son .
` And what price would you pay ? '
` What price ? '
answered the king's son ; ` only tell me what I can do to heal him . '
` Listen to me , then , ' said the old man .
` This evening you must take your child , and open her veins , and smear the wounds of your friend with her blood .
And you will see , he will get well in an instant . '
At these words the king's son shrieked with horror , for he loved the baby dearly , but he answered , ' I have sworn that I would treat my friend as if he were my brother , and if there is no other way my child must be sacrificed . '
As by this time evening had already fallen he took the child and opened its veins , and smeared the blood over the wounds of the sick man , and the look of death departed from him , and he grew strong and rosy once more .
But the little child lay as white and still as if she had been dead .
They laid her in the cradle and wept bitterly , for they thought that by the next morning she would be lost to them .
At sunrise the old man returned and asked after the sick man .
` He is as well as ever , ' answered the king's son .
` And where is your baby ? '
` In the cradle yonder , and I think she is dead , ' replied the father sadly .
` Look at her once more , ' said the holy man , and as they drew near the cradle there lay the baby smiling up at them . '
I am St. James of Lizia , ' said the old man , ` and I have come to help you , for I have seen that you are a true friend .
From henceforward live happily , all of you , together , and if troubles should draw near you send for me , and I will aid you to get through them . '
With these words he lifted his hand in blessing and vanished .
And they obeyed him , and were happy and content , and tried to make the people of the land happy and contented too .
