Once upon a time the king of the Goldland lost himself in a forest , and try as he would he could not find the way out .
As he was wandering down one path which had looked at first more hopeful than the rest he saw a man coming towards him .
` What are you doing here , friend ? '
asked the stranger ; ` darkness is falling fast , and soon the wild beasts will come from their lairs to seek for food . ' '
I have lost myself , ' answered the king , ` and am trying to get home . '
` Then promise me that you will give me the first thing that comes out of your house , and I will show you the way , ' said the stranger .
The king did not answer directly , but after awhile he spoke : ` Why should I give away my BEST sporting dog .
I can surely find my way out of the forest as well as this man . '
So the stranger left him , but the king followed path after path for three whole days , with no better success than before .
He was almost in despair , when the stranger suddenly appeared , blocking up his way .
` Promise you will give me the first thing that comes out of your house to meet you ? '
But still the king was stiff-necked and would promise nothing .
For some days longer he wandered up and down the forest , trying first one path , then another , but his courage at last gave way , and he sank wearily on the ground under a tree , feeling sure his last hour had come .
Then for the third time the stranger stood before the king , and said : ` Why are you such a fool ?
What can a dog be to you , that you should give your life for him like this ?
Just promise me the reward I want , and I will guide you out of the forest . '
` Well , my life is worth more than a thousand dogs , ' answered the king , ` the welfare of my kingdom depends on me .
I accept your terms , so take me to my palace . '
Scarcely had he uttered the words than he found himself at the edge of the wood , with the palace in the dim distance .
He made all the haste he could , and just as he reached the great gates out came the nurse with the royal baby , who stretched out his arms to his father .
The king shrank back , and ordered the nurse to take the baby away at once .
Then his great boarhound bounded up to him , but his caresses were only answered by a violent push .
When the king's anger was spent , and he was able to think what was best to be done , he exchanged his baby , a beautiful boy , for the daughter of a peasant , and the prince lived roughly as the son of poor people , while the little girl slept in a golden cradle , under silken sheets .
At the end of a year , the stranger arrived to claim his property , and took away the little girl , believing her to be the true child of the king .
The king was so delighted with the success of his plan that he ordered a great feast to be got ready , and gave splendid presents to the foster parents of his son , so that he might lack nothing .
But he did not dare to bring back the baby , lest the trick should be found out .
The peasants were quite contented with this arrangement , which gave them food and money in abundance .
By-and-by the boy grew big and tall , and seemed to lead a happy life in the house of his foster parents .
But a shadow hung over him which really poisoned most of his pleasure , and that was the thought of the poor innocent girl who had suffered in his stead , for his foster father had told him in secret , that he was the king's son .
And the prince determined that when he grew old enough he would travel all over the world , and never rest till he had set her free .
To become king at the cost of a maiden's life was too heavy a price to pay .
So one day he put on the dress of a farm servant , threw a sack of peas on his back , and marched straight into the forest where eighteen years before his father had lost himself .
After he had walked some way he began to cry loudly : ` Oh , how unlucky I am !
Where can I be ?
Is there no one to show me the way out of the wood ? '
Then appeared a strange man with a long grey beard , with a leather bag hanging from his girdle .
He nodded cheerfully to the prince , and said : ' I know this place well , and can lead you out of it , if you will promise me a good reward . '
` What can a beggar such as I promise you ? '
answered the prince . '
I have nothing to give you save my life ; even the coat on my back belongs to my master , whom I serve for my keep and my clothes . '
The stranger looked at the sack of peas , and said , ` But you must possess something ; you are carrying this sack , which seems to be very heavy . '
` It is full of peas , ' was the reply .
` My old aunt died last night , without leaving money enough to buy peas to give the watchers , as is the custom throughout the country .
I have borrowed these peas from my master , and thought to take a short cut across the forest ; but I have lost myself , as you see . '
` Then you are an orphan ? '
asked the stranger .
` Why should you not enter my service ?
I want a sharp fellow in the house , and you please me . '
` Why not , indeed , if we can strike a bargain ? '
said the other . '
I was born a peasant , and strange bread is always bitter , so it is the same to me whom I serve !
What wages will you give me ? '
` Every day fresh food , meat twice a week , butter and vegetables , your summer and winter clothes , and a portion of land for your own use . ' '
I shall be satisfied with that , ' said the youth .
` Somebody else will have to bury my aunt .
I will go with you ! '
Now this bargain seemed to please the old fellow so much that he spun round like a top , and sang so loud that the whole wood rang with his voice .
Then he set out with his companion , and chattered so fast that he never noticed that his new servant kept dropping peas out of the sack .
At night they slept under a fig tree , and when the sun rose started on their way .
About noon they came to a large stone , and here the old fellow stopped , looked carefully round , gave a sharp whistle , and stamped three times on the ground with his left foot .
Suddenly there appeared under the stone a secret door , which led to what looked like the mouth of a cave .
The old fellow seized the youth by the arm , and said roughly , ` Follow me ! '
Thick darkness surrounded them , yet it seemed to the prince as if their path led into still deeper depths .
After a long while he thought he saw a glimmer of light , but the light was neither that of the sun nor of the moon .
He looked eagerly at it , but found it was only a kind of pale cloud , which was all the light this strange underworld could boast .
Earth and water , trees and plants , birds and beasts , each was different from those he had seen before ; but what most struck terror into his heart was the absolute stillness that reigned everywhere .
Not a rustle or a sound could be heard .
Here and there he noticed a bird sitting on a branch , with head erect and swelling throat , but his ear caught nothing .
The dogs opened their mouths as if to bark , the toiling oxen seemed about to bellow , but neither bark nor bellow reached the prince .
The water flowed noiselessly over the pebbles , the wind bowed the tops of the trees , flies and chafers darted about , without breaking the silence .
The old greybeard uttered no word , and when his companion tried to ask him the meaning of it all he felt that his voice died in his throat .
How long this fearful stillness lasted I do not know , but the prince gradually felt his heart turning to ice , his hair stood up like bristles , and a cold chill was creeping down his spine , when at last -- oh , ecstasy !
-- a faint noise broke on his straining ears , and this life of shadows suddenly became real .
It sounded as if a troop of horses were ploughing their way over a moor .
Then the greybeard opened his mouth , and said : ` The kettle is boiling ; we are expected at home . '
They walked on a little further , till the prince thought he heard the grinding of a saw-mill , as if dozens of saws were working together , but his guide observed , ` The grandmother is sleeping soundly ; listen how she snores . '
When they had climbed a hill which lay before them the prince saw in the distance the house of his master , but it was so surrounded with buildings of all kinds that the place looked more like a village or even a small town .
They reached it at last , and found an empty kennel standing in front of the gate .
` Creep inside this , ' said the master , ` and wait while I go in and see my grandmother .
Like all very old people , she is very obstinate , and can not bear fresh faces about her . '
The prince crept tremblingly into the kennel , and began to regret the daring which had brought him into this scrape .
By-and-by the master came back , and called him from his hiding-place .
Something had put out his temper , for with a frown he said , ` Watch carefully our ways in the house , and beware of making any mistake , or it will go ill with you .
Keep your eyes and ears open , and your mouth shut , obey without questions .
Be grateful if you will , but never speak unless you are spoken to . '
When the prince stepped over the threshold he caught sight of a maiden of wonderful beauty , with brown eyes and fair curly hair .
` Well ! '
the young man said to himself , ` if the old fellow has many daughters like that I should not mind being his son-in-law .
This one is just what I admire ' ; and he watched her lay the table , bring in the food , and take her seat by the fire as if she had never noticed that a strange man was present .
Then she took out a needle and thread , and began to darn her stockings .
The master sat at table alone , and invited neither his new servant nor the maid to eat with him .
Neither was the old grandmother anywhere to be seen .
His appetite was tremendous : he soon cleared all the dishes , and ate enough to satisfy a dozen men .
When at last he could eat no more he said to the girl , ` Now you can pick up the pieces , and take what is left in the iron pot for your own dinner , but give the bones to the dog . '
The prince did not at all like the idea of dining off scraps , which he helped the girl to pick up , but , after all , he found that there was plenty to eat , and that the food was very good .
During the meal he stole many glances at the maiden , and would even have spoken to her , but she gave him no encouragement .
Every time he opened his mouth for the purpose she looked at him sternly , as if to say , ` Silence , ' so he could only let his eyes speak for him .
Besides , the master was stretched on a bench by the oven after his huge meal , and would have heard everything .
After supper that night , the old man said to the prince , ` For two days you may rest from the fatigues of the journey , and look about the house .
But the day after to-morrow you must come with me , and I will point out the work you have to do .
The maid will show you where you are to sleep . '
The prince thought , from this , he had leave to speak , but his master turned on him with a face of thunder and exclaimed : ` You dog of a servant !
If you disobey the laws of the house you will soon find yourself a head shorter !
Hold your tongue , and leave me in peace . '
The girl made a sign to him to follow her , and , throwing open a door , nodded to him to go in .
He would have lingered a moment , for he thought she looked sad , but dared not do so , for fear of the old man's anger .
` It is impossible that she can be his daughter ! '
he said to himself , ` for she has a kind heart .
I am quite sure she must be the same girl who was brought here instead of me , so I am bound to risk my head in this mad adventure . '
He got into bed , but it was long before he fell asleep , and even then his dreams gave him no rest .
He seemed to be surrounded by dangers , and it was only the power of the maiden who helped him through it all .
When he woke his first thoughts were for the girl , whom he found hard at work .
He drew water from the well and carried it to the house for her , kindled the fire under the iron pot , and , in fact , did everything that came into his head that could be of any use to her .
In the afternoon he went out , in order to learn something of his new home , and wondered greatly not to come across the old grandmother .
In his rambles he came to the farmyard , where a beautiful white horse had a stall to itself ; in another was a black cow with two white-faced calves , while the clucking of geese , ducks , and hens reached him from a distance .
Breakfast , dinner , and supper were as savoury as before , and the prince would have been quite content with his quarters had it not been for the difficulty of keeping silence in the presence of the maiden .
On the evening of the second day he went , as he had been told , to receive his orders for the following morning . '
I am going to set you something very easy to do to-morrow , ' said the old man when his servant entered .
` Take this scythe and cut as much grass as the white horse will want for its day's feed , and clean out its stall .
If I come back and find the manger empty it will go ill with you .
So beware ! '
The prince left the room , rejoicing in his heart , and saying to himself , ` Well , I shall soon get through that !
If I have never yet handled either the plough or the scythe , at least I have often watched the country people work them , and know how easy it is . '
He was just going to open his door , when the maiden glided softly past and whispered in his ear : ` What task has he set you ? '
` For to-morrow , ' answered the prince , ` it is really nothing at all !
Just to cut hay for the horse , and to clean out his stall ! '
` Oh , luckless being ! '
sighed the girl ; ` how will you ever get through with it .
The white horse , who is our master's grandmother , is always hungry : it takes twenty men always mowing to keep it in food for one day , and another twenty to clean out its stall .
How , then , do you expect to do it all by yourself ?
But listen to me , and do what I tell you .
It is your only chance .
When you have filled the manger as full as it will hold you must weave a strong plait of the rushes which grow among the meadow hay , and cut a thick peg of stout wood , and be sure that the horse sees what you are doing .
Then it will ask you what it is for , and you will say , ` With this plait I intend to bind up your mouth so that you can not eat any more , and with this peg I am going to keep you still in one spot , so that you can not scatter your corn and water all over the place ! '
After these words the maiden went away as softly as she had come .
Early the next morning he set to work .
His scythe danced through the grass much more easily than he had hoped , and soon he had enough to fill the manger .
He put it in the crib , and returned with a second supply , when to his horror he found the crib empty .
Then he knew that without the maiden's advice he would certainly have been lost , and began to put it into practice .
He took out the rushes which had somehow got mixed up with the hay , and plaited them quickly .
` My son , what are you doing ? '
asked the horse wonderingly .
` Oh , nothing ! '
replied he .
` Just weaving a chin strap to bind your jaws together , in case you might wish to eat any more ! '
The white horse sighed deeply when it heard this , and made up its mind to be content with what it had eaten .
The youth next began to clean out the stall , and the horse knew it had found a master ; and by mid-day there was still fodder in the manger , and the place was as clean as a new pin .
He had barely finished when in walked the old man , who stood astonished at the door .
` Is it really you who have been clever enough to do that ? '
he asked .
` Or has some one else given you a hint ? '
` Oh , I have had no help , ' replied the prince , ` except what my poor weak head could give me . '
The old man frowned , and went away , and the prince rejoiced that everything had turned out so well .
In the evening his master said , ` To-morrow I have no special task to set you , but as the girl has a great deal to do in the house you must milk the black cow for her .
But take care you milk her dry , or it may be the worse for you . '
` Well , ' thought the prince as he went away , ` unless there is some trick behind , this does not sound very hard .
I have never milked a cow before , but I have good strong fingers . '
He was very sleepy , and was just going toward his room , when the maiden came to him and asked : ` What is your task to-morrow ? ' '
I am to help you , ' he answered , ` and have nothing to do all day , except to milk the black cow dry . '
` Oh , you are unlucky , ' cried she .
` If you were to try from morning till night you couldn't do it .
There is only one way of escaping the danger , and that is , when you go to milk her , take with you a pan of burning coals and a pair of tongs .
Place the pan on the floor of the stall , and the tongs on the fire , and blow with all your might , till the coals burn brightly .
The black cow will ask you what is the meaning of all this , and you must answer what I will whisper to you . '
And she stood on tip-toe and whispered something in his ear , and then went away .
The dawn had scarcely reddened the sky when the prince jumped out of bed , and , with the pan of coals in one hand and the milk pail in the other , went straight to the cow's stall , and began to do exactly as the maiden had told him the evening before .
The black cow watched him with surprise for some time , and then said : ` What are you doing , sonny ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' answered he ; ' I am only heating a pair of tongs in case you may not feel inclined to give as much milk as I want . '
The cow sighed deeply , and looked at the milkman with fear , but he took no notice , and milked briskly into the pail , till the cow ran dry .
Just at that moment the old man entered the stable , and sat down to milk the cow himself , but not a drop of milk could he get .
` Have you really managed it all yourself , or did somebody help you ? ' '
I have nobody to help me , ' answered the prince , ` but my own poor head . '
The old man got up from his seat and went away .
That night , when the prince went to his master to hear what his next day's work was to be , the old man said : ' I have a little hay-stack out in the meadow which must be brought in to dry .
To-morrow you will have to stack it all in the shed , and , as you value your life , be careful not to leave the smallest strand behind . '
The prince was overjoyed to hear he had nothing worse to do .
` To carry a little hay-rick requires no great skill , ' thought he , ` and it will give me no trouble , for the horse will have to draw it in .
I am certainly not going to spare the old grandmother . '
By-and-by the maiden stole up to ask what task he had for the next day .
The young man laughed , and said : ` It appears that I have got to learn all kinds of farmer's work .
To-morrow I have to carry a hay-rick , and leave not a stalk in the meadow , and that is my whole day's work ! '
` Oh , you unlucky creature ! '
cried she ; ` and how do you think you are to do it .
If you had all the men in the world to help you , you could not clear off this one little hay-rick in a week .
The instant you have thrown down the hay at the top , it will take root again from below .
But listen to what I say .
You must steal out at daybreak to-morrow and bring out the white horse and some good strong ropes .
Then get on the hay-stack , put the ropes round it , and harness the horse to the ropes .
When you are ready , climb up the hay-stack and begin to count one , two , three .
The horse will ask you what you are counting , and you must be sure to answer what I whisper to you . '
So the maiden whispered something in his ear , and left the room .
And the prince knew nothing better to do than to get into bed .
He slept soundly , and it was still almost dark when he got up and proceeded to carry out the instructions given him by the girl .
First he chose some stout ropes , and then he led the horse out of the stable and rode it to the hay-stack , which was made up of fifty cartloads , so that it could hardly be called ' a little one . '
The prince did all that the maiden had told him , and when at last he was seated on top of the rick , and had counted up to twenty , he heard the horse ask in amazement : ` What are you counting up there , my son ? '
` Oh , nothing , ' said he , ' I was just amusing myself with counting the packs of wolves in the forest , but there are really so many of them that I don't think I should ever be done . '
The word ` wolf ' was hardly out of his mouth than the white horse was off like the wind , so that in the twinkling of an eye it had reached the shed , dragging the hay-stack behind it .
The master was dumb with surprise as he came in after breakfast and found his man's day's work quite done .
` Was it really you who were so clever ? '
asked he .
` Or did some one give you good advice ? '
` Oh , I have only myself to take counsel with , ' said the prince , and the old man went away , shaking his head .
Late in the evening the prince went to his master to learn what he was to do next day .
` To-morrow , ' said the old man , ` you must bring the white-headed calf to the meadow , and , as you value your life , take care it does not escape from you . '
The prince answered nothing , but thought , ` Well , most peasants of nineteen have got a whole herd to look after , so surely I can manage one . '
And he went towards his room , where the maiden met him .
` To morrow I have got an idiot's work , ' said he ; ` nothing but to take the white-headed calf to the meadow . '
` Oh , you unlucky being ! '
sighed she .
` Do you know that this calf is so swift that in a single day he can run three times round the world ?
Take heed to what I tell you .
Bind one end of this silk thread to the left fore-leg of the calf , and the other end to the little toe of your left foot , so that the calf will never be able to leave your side , whether you walk , stand , or lie . '
After this the prince went to bed and slept soundly .
The next morning he did exactly what the maiden had told him , and led the calf with the silken thread to the meadow , where it stuck to his side like a faithful dog .
By sunset , it was back again in its stall , and then came the master and said , with a frown , ` Were you really so clever yourself , or did somebody tell you what to do ? '
` Oh , I have only my own poor head , ' answered the prince , and the old man went away growling , ' I don't believe a word of it !
I am sure you have found some clever friend ! '
In the evening he called the prince and said : ` To-morrow I have no work for you , but when I wake you must come before my bed , and give me your hand in greeting . '
The young man wondered at this strange freak , and went laughing in search of the maiden .
` Ah , it is no laughing matter , ' sighed she .
` He means to eat you , and there is only one way in which I can help you .
You must heat an iron shovel red hot , and hold it out to him instead of your hand . '
So next morning he wakened very early , and had heated the shovel before the old man was awake .
At length he heard him calling , ` You lazy fellow , where are you ?
Come and wish me good morning . '
But when the prince entered with the red-hot shovel his master only said , ' I am very ill to-day , and too weak even to touch your hand .
You must return this evening , when I may be better . '
The prince loitered about all day , and in the evening went back to the old man's room .
He was received in the most ; friendly manner , and , to his surprise , his master exclaimed , ' I am very well satisfied with you .
Come to me at dawn and bring the maiden with you .
I know you have long loved each other , and I wish to make you man and wife . '
The young man nearly jumped into the air for joy , but , remembering the rules of the house , he managed to keep still .
When he told the maiden , he saw to his astonishment that she had become as white as a sheet , and she was quite dumb .
` The old man has found out who was your counsellor , ' she said when she could speak , ` and he means to destroy us both . '
We must escape somehow , or else we shall be lost .
Take an axe , and cut off the head of the calf with one blow .
With a second , split its head in two , and in its brain you will see a bright red ball .
Bring that to me .
Meanwhile , I will do what is needful here .
And the prince thought to himself , ` Better kill the calf than be killed ourselves .
If we can once escape , we will go back home .
The peas which I strewed about must have sprouted , so that we shall not miss the way . '
Then he went into the stall , and with one blow of the axe killed the calf , and with the second split its brain .
In an instant the place was filled with light , as the red ball fell from the brain of the calf .
The prince picked it up , and , wrapping it round with a thick cloth , hid it in his bosom .
Mercifully , the cow slept through it all , or by her cries she would have awakened the master .
He looked round , and at the door stood the maiden , holding a little bundle in her arms .
` Where is the ball ? '
she asked .
` Here , ' answered he .
` We must lose no time in escaping , ' she went on , and uncovered a tiny bit of the shining ball , to light them on their way .
As the prince had expected the peas had taken root , and grown into a little hedge , so that they were sure they would not lose the path .
As they fled , the girl told him that she had overheard a conversation between the old man and his grandmother , saying that she was a king's daughter , whom the old fellow had obtained by cunning from her parents .
The prince , who knew all about the affair , was silent , though he was glad from his heart that it had fallen to his lot to set her free .
So they went on till the day began to dawn .
The old man slept very late that morning , and rubbed his eyes till he was properly awake .
Then he remembered that very soon the couple were to present themselves before him .
After waiting and waiting till quite a long time had passed , he said to himself , with a grin , ` Well , they are not in much hurry to be married , ' and waited again .
At last he grew a little uneasy , and cried loudly , ` Man and maid !
what has become of you ? '
After repeating this many times , he became quite frightened , but , call as he would , neither man nor maid appeared .
At last he jumped angrily out of bed to go in search of the culprits , but only found an empty house , and beds that had never been slept in .
Then he went straight to the stable , where the sight of the dead calf told him all .
Swearing loudly , he opened the door of the third stall quickly , and cried to his goblin servants to go and chase the fugitives .
` Bring them to me , however you may find them , for have them I must ! '
he said .
So spake the old man , and the servants fled like the wind .
The runaways were crossing a great plain , when the maiden stopped .
` Something has happened ! '
she said .
` The ball moves in my hand , and I 'm sure we are being followed ! '
and behind them they saw a black cloud flying before the wind .
Then the maiden turned the ball thrice in her hand , and cried , ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change me into a brook , And my lover into a little fish . '
And in an instant there was a brook with a fish swimming in it .
The goblins arrived just after , but , seeing nobody , waited for a little , then hurried home , leaving the brook and the fish undisturbed .
When they were quite out of sight , the brook and the fish returned to their usual shapes and proceeded on their journey .
When the goblins , tired and with empty hands , returned , their master inquired what they had seen , and if nothing strange had befallen them .
` Nothing , ' said they ; ` the plain was quite empty , save for a brook and a fish swimming in it . '
` Idiots ! '
roared the master ; ` of course it was they ! '
And dashing open the door of the fifth stall , he told the goblins inside that they must go and drink up the brook , and catch the fish .
And the goblins jumped up , and flew like the wind .
The young pair had almost reached the edge of the wood , when the maiden stopped again .
` Something has happened , ' said she .
` The ball is moving in my hand , ' and looking round she beheld a cloud flying towards them , large and blacker than the first , and striped with red .
` Those are our pursuers , ' cried she , and turning the ball three times in her hand she spoke to it thus : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change us both .
Me into a wild rose bush , And him into a rose on my stem . '
And in the twinkling of an eye it was done .
Only just in time too , for the goblins were close at hand , and looked round eagerly for the stream and the fish .
But neither stream nor fish was to be seen ; nothing but a rose bush .
So they went sorrowing home , and when they were out of sight the rose bush and rose returned to their proper shapes and walked all the faster for the little rest they had had .
` Well , did you find them ? '
asked the old man when his goblins came back .
` No , ' replied the leader of the goblins , ` we found neither brook nor fish in the desert . '
` And did you find nothing else at all ? '
` Oh , nothing but a rose tree on the edge of a wood , with a rose hanging on it . '
` Idiots ! '
cried he .
` Why , that was they . '
And he threw open the door of the seventh stall , where his mightiest goblins were locked in .
` Bring them to me , however you find them , dead or alive ! '
thundered he , ` for I will have them !
Tear up the rose tree and the roots too , and don't leave anything behind , however strange it may be ! '
The fugitives were resting in the shade of a wood , and were refreshing themselves with food and drink .
Suddenly the maiden looked up .
` Something has happened , ' said she .
` The ball has nearly jumped out of my bosom !
Some one is certainly following us , and the danger is near , but the trees hide our enemies from us . '
As she spoke she took the ball in her hand , and said : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Be quick and change me into a breeze , And make my lover into a midge . '
An instant , and the girl was dissolved into thin air , while the prince darted about like a midge .
The next moment a crowd of goblins rushed up , and looked about in search of something strange , for neither a rose bush nor anything else was to be seen .
But they had hardly turned their backs to go home empty-handed when the prince and the maiden stood on the earth again .
` We must make all the haste we can , ' said she , ` before the old man himself comes to seek us , for he will know us under any disguise . '
They ran on till they reached such a dark part of the forest that , if it had not been for the light shed by the ball , they could not have made their way at all .
Worn out and breathless , they came at length to a large stone , and here the ball began to move restlessly .
The maiden , seeing this , exclaimed : ` Listen to me , my ball , my ball .
Roll the stone quickly to one side , That we may find a door . '
And in a moment the stone had rolled away , and they had passed through the door to the world again .
` Now we are safe , ' cried she .
` Here the old wizard has no more power over us , and we can guard ourselves from his spells .
But , my friend , we have to part !
You will return to your parents , and I must go in search of mine . '
` No !
no ! '
exclaimed the prince . '
I will never part from you .
You must come with me and be my wife .
We have gone through many troubles together , and now we will share our joys .
The maiden resisted his words for some time , but at last she went with him .
In the forest they met a woodcutter , who told them that in the palace , as well as in all the land , there had been great sorrow over the loss of the prince , and many years had now passed away during which they had found no traces of him .
So , by the help of the magic ball , the maiden managed that he should put on the same clothes that he had been wearing at the time he had vanished , so that his father might know him more quickly .
She herself stayed behind in a peasant's hut , so that father and son might meet alone .
But the father was no longer there , for the loss of his son had killed him ; and on his deathbed he confessed to his people how he had contrived that the old wizard should carry away a peasant's child instead of the prince , wherefore this punishment had fallen upon him .
The prince wept bitterly when he heard this news , for he had loved his father well , and for three days he ate and drank nothing .
But on the fourth day he stood in the presence of his people as their new king , and , calling his councillors , he told them all the strange things that had befallen him , and how the maiden had borne him safe through all .
And the councillors cried with one voice , ` Let her be your wife , and our liege lady . '
And that is the end of the story .
Once upon a time there lived a queen whose heart was sore because she had no children .
She was sad enough when her husband was at home with her , but when he was away she would see nobody , but sat and wept all day long .
Now it happened that a war broke out with the king of a neighbouring country , and the queen was left in the palace alone .
She was so unhappy that she felt as if the walls would stifle her , so she wandered out into the garden , and threw herself down on a grassy bank , under the shade of a lime tree .
She had been there for some time , when a rustle among the leaves caused her to look up , and she saw an old woman limping on her crutches towards the stream that flowed through the grounds .
When she had quenched her thirst , she came straight up to the queen , and said to her : ` Do not take it evil , noble lady , that I dare to speak to you , and do not be afraid of me , for it may be that I shall bring you good luck . '
The queen looked at her doubtfully , and answered : ` You do not seem as if you had been very lucky yourself , or to have much good fortune to spare for anyone else . '
` Under rough bark lies smooth wood and sweet kernel , ' replied the old woman .
` Let me see your hand , that I may read the future . '
The queen held out her hand , and the old woman examined its lines closely .
Then she said , ` Your heart is heavy with two sorrows , one old and one new .
The new sorrow is for your husband , who is fighting far away from you ; but , believe me , he is well , and will soon bring you joyful news .
But your other sorrow is much older than this .
Your happiness is spoilt because you have no children . '
At these words the queen became scarlet , and tried to draw away her hand , but the old woman said : ` Have a little patience , for there are some things I want to see more clearly . '
` But who are you ? '
asked the queen , ` for you seem to be able to read my heart . '
` Never mind my name , ' answered she , ` but rejoice that it is permitted to me to show you a way to lessen your grief .
You must , however , promise to do exactly what I tell you , if any good is to come of it . '
` Oh , I will obey you exactly , ' cried the queen , ` and if you can help me you shall have in return anything you ask for . '
The old woman stood thinking for a little : then she drew something from the folds of her dress , and , undoing a number of wrappings , brought out a tiny basket made of birch-bark .
She held it out to the queen , saying , ` In the basket you will find a bird's egg .
This you must be careful to keep in a warm place for three months , when it will turn into a doll .
Lay the doll in a basket lined with soft wool , and leave it alone , for it will not need any food , and by-and-by you will find it has grown to be the size of a baby .
Then you will have a baby of your own , and you must put it by the side of the other child , and bring your husband to see his son and daughter .
The boy you will bring up yourself , but you must entrust the little girl to a nurse .
When the time comes to have them christened you will invite me to be godmother to the princess , and this is how you must send the invitation .
Hidden in the cradle , you will find a goose's wing : throw this out of the window , and I will be with you directly ; but be sure you tell no one of all the things that have befallen you . '
The queen was about to reply , but the old woman was already limping away , and before she had gone two steps she had turned into a young girl , who moved so quickly that she seemed rather to fly than to walk .
The queen , watching this transformation , could hardly believe her eyes , and would have taken it all for a dream , had it not been for the basket which she held in her hand .
Feeling a different being from the poor sad woman who had wandered into the garden so short a time before , she hastened to her room , and felt carefully in the basket for the egg .
There it was , a tiny thing of soft blue with little green spots , and she took it out and kept it in her bosom , which was the warmest place she could think of .
A fortnight after the old woman had paid her visit , the king came home , having conquered his enemies .
At this proof that the old woman had spoken truth , the queen's heart bounded , for she now had fresh hopes that the rest of the prophecy might be fulfilled .
She cherished the basket and the egg as her chiefest treasures , and had a golden case made for the basket , so that when the time came to lay the egg in it , it might not risk any harm .
Three months passed , and , as the old woman had bidden her , the queen took the egg from her bosom , and laid it snugly amidst the warm woollen folds .
The next morning she went to look at it , and the first thing she saw was the broken eggshell , and a little doll lying among the pieces .
Then she felt happy at last , and leaving the doll in peace to grow , waited , as she had been told , for a baby of her own to lay beside it .
In course of time , this came also , and the queen took the little girl out of the basket , and placed it with her son in a golden cradle which glittered with precious stones .
Next she sent for the king , who nearly went mad with joy at the sight of the children .
Soon there came a day when the whole court was ordered to be present at the christening of the royal babies , and when all was ready the queen softly opened the window a little , and let the goose wing fly out .
The guests were coming thick and fast , when suddenly there drove up a splendid coach drawn by six cream-coloured horses , and out of it stepped a young lady dressed in garments that shone like the sun .
Her face could not be seen , for a veil covered her head , but as she came up to the place where the queen was standing with the babies she drew the veil aside , and everyone was dazzled with her beauty .
She took the little girl in her arms , and holding it up before the assembled company announced that henceforward it would be known by the name of Dotterine -- a name which no one understood but the queen , who knew that the baby had come from the yolk of an egg .
The boy was called Willem .
After the feast was over and the guests were going away , the godmother laid the baby in the cradle , and said to the queen , ` Whenever the baby goes to sleep , be sure you lay the basket beside her , and leave the eggshells in it .
As long as you do that , no evil can come to her ; so guard this treasure as the apple of your eye , and teach your daughter to do so likewise . '
Then , kissing the baby three times , she mounted her coach and drove away .
The children throve well , and Dotterine's nurse loved her as if she were the baby's real mother .
Every day the little girl seemed to grow prettier , and people used to say she would soon be as beautiful as her godmother , but no one knew , except the nurse , that at night , when the child slept , a strange and lovely lady bent over her .
At length she told the queen what she had seen , but they determined to keep it as a secret between themselves .
The twins were by this time nearly two years old , when the queen was taken suddenly ill .
All the best doctors in the country were sent for , but it was no use , for there is no cure for death .
The queen knew she was dying , and sent for Dotterine and her nurse , who had now become her lady-in-waiting .
To her , as her most faithful servant , she gave the lucky basket in charge , and besought her to treasure it carefully .
` When my daughter , ' said the queen , ` is ten years old , you are to hand it over to her , but warn her solemnly that her whole future happiness depends on the way she guards it .
About my son , I have no fears .
He is the heir of the kingdom , and his father will look after him . '
The lady-in-waiting promised to carry out the queen's directions , and above all to keep the affair a secret .
And that same morning the queen died .
After some years the king married again , but he did not love his second wife as he had done his first , and had only married her for reasons of ambition .
She hated her step-children , and the king , seeing this , kept them out of the way , under the care of Dotterine's old nurse .
But if they ever strayed across the path of the queen , she would kick them out of her sight like dogs .
On Dotterine's tenth birthday her nurse handed her over the cradle , and repeated to her her mother's dying words ; but the child was too young to understand the value of such a gift , and at first thought little about it .
Two more years slipped by , when one day during the king's absence the stepmother found Dotterine sitting under a lime tree .
She fell as usual into a passion , and beat the child so badly that Dotterine went staggering to her own room .
Her nurse was not there , but suddenly , as she stood weeping , her eyes fell upon the golden case in which lay the precious basket .
She thought it might contain something to amuse her , and looked eagerly inside , but nothing was there save a handful of wool and two empty eggshells .
Very much disappointed , she lifted the wool , and there lay the goose's wing .
` What old rubbish , ' said the child to herself , and , turning , threw the wing out of the open window .
In a moment a beautiful lady stood beside her .
` Do not be afraid , ' said the lady , stroking Dotterine's head . '
I am your godmother , and have come to pay you a visit .
Your red eyes tell me that you are unhappy .
I know that your stepmother is very unkind to you , but be brave and patient , and better days will come .
She will have no power over you when you are grown up , and no one else can hurt you either , if only you are careful never to part from your basket , or to lose the eggshells that are in it .
Make a silken case for the little basket , and hide it away in your dress night and day and you will be safe from your stepmother and anyone that tries to harm you .
But if you should happen to find yourself in any difficulty , and can not tell what to do , take the goose's wing from the basket , and throw it out of the window , and in a moment I will come to help you .
Now come into the garden , that I may talk to you under the lime trees , where no one can hear us . '
They had so much to say to each other , that the sun was already setting when the godmother had ended all the good advice she wished to give the child , and saw it was time for her to be going .
` Hand me the basket , ' said she , ` for you must have some supper .
I can not let you go hungry to bed . '
Then , bending over the basket , she whispered some magic words , and instantly a table covered with fruits and cakes stood on the ground before them .
When they had finished eating , the godmother led the child back , and on the way taught her the words she must say to the basket when she wanted it to give her something .
In a few years more , Dotterine was a grown-up young lady , and those who saw her thought that the world did not contain so lovely a girl .
About this time a terrible war broke out , and the king and his army were beaten back and back , till at length they had to retire into the town , and make ready for a siege .
It lasted so long that food began to fail , and even in the palace there was not enough to eat .
So one morning Dotterine , who had had neither supper nor breakfast , and was feeling very hungry , let her wing fly away .
She was so weak and miserable , that directly her godmother appeared she burst into tears , and could not speak for some time .
` Do not cry so , dear child , ' said the godmother . '
I will carry you away from all this , but the others I must leave to take their chance . '
Then , bidding Dotterine follow her , she passed through the gates of the town , and through the army outside , and nobody stopped them , or seemed to see them .
The next day the town surrendered , and the king and all his courtiers were taken prisoners , but in the confusion his son managed to make his escape .
The queen had already met her death from a spear carelessly thrown .
As soon as Dotterine and her godmother were clear of the enemy , Dotterine took off her own clothes , and put on those of a peasant , and in order to disguise her better her godmother changed her face completely .
` When better times come , ' her protectress said cheerfully , ` and you want to look like yourself again , you have only to whisper the words I have taught you into the basket , and say you would like to have your own face once more , and it will be all right in a moment .
But you will have to endure a little longer yet . '
Then , warning her once more to take care of the basket , the lady bade the girl farewell .
For many days Dotterine wandered from one place to another without finding shelter , and though the food which she got from the basket prevented her from starving , she was glad enough to take service in a peasant's house till brighter days dawned .
At first the work she had to do seemed very difficult , but either she was wonderfully quick in learning , or else the basket may have secretly helped her .
Anyhow at the end of three days she could do everything as well as if she had cleaned pots and swept rooms all her life .
One morning Dotterine was busy scouring a wooden tub , when a noble lady happened to pass through the village .
The girl's bright face as she stood in the front of the door with her tub attracted the lady , and she stopped and called the girl to come and speak to her .
` Would you not like to come and enter my service ? '
she asked .
` Very much , ' replied Dotterine , ` if my present mistress will allow me . '
` Oh , I will settle that , ' answered the lady ; and so she did , and the same day they set out for the lady's house , Dotterine sitting beside the coachman .
Six months went by , and then came the joyful news that the king's son had collected an army and had defeated the usurper who had taken his father's place , but at the same moment Dotterine learned that the old king had died in captivity .
The girl wept bitterly for his loss , but in secrecy , as she had told her mistress nothing about her past life .
At the end of a year of mourning , the young king let it be known that he intended to marry , and commanded all the maidens in the kingdom to come to a feast , so that he might choose a wife from among them .
For weeks all the mothers and all the daughters in the land were busy preparing beautiful dresses and trying new ways of putting up their hair , and the three lovely daughters of Dotterine's mistress were as much excited as the rest .
The girl was clever with her fingers , and was occupied all day with getting ready their smart clothes , but at night when she went to bed she always dreamed that her godmother bent over her and said , ` Dress your young ladies for the feast , and when they have started follow them yourself .
Nobody will be so fine as you . '
When the great day came , Dotterine could hardly contain herself , and when she had dressed her young mistresses and seen them depart with their mother she flung herself on her bed , and burst into tears .
Then she seemed to hear a voice whisper to her , ` Look in your basket , and you will find in it everything that you need . '
Dotterine did not want to be told twice !
Up she jumped , seized her basket , and repeated the magic words , and behold !
there lay a dress on the bed , shining as a star .
She put it on with fingers that trembled with joy , and , looking in the glass , was struck dumb at her own beauty .
She went downstairs , and in front of the door stood a fine carriage , into which she stepped and was driven away like the wind .
The king's palace was a long way off , yet it seemed only a few minutes before Dotterine drew up at the great gates .
She was just going to alight , when she suddenly remembered she had left her basket behind her .
What was she to do ?
Go back and fetch it , lest some ill-fortune should befall her , or enter the palace and trust to chance that nothing evil would happen ?
But before she could decide , a little swallow flew up with the basket in its beak , and the girl was happy again .
The feast was already at its height , and the hall was brilliant with youth and beauty , when the door was flung wide and Dotterine entered , making all the other maidens look pale and dim beside her .
Their hopes faded as they gazed , but their mothers whispered together , saying , ` Surely this is our lost princess ! '
The young king did not know her again , but he never left her side nor took his eyes from her .
And at midnight a strange thing happened .
A thick cloud suddenly filled the hall , so that for a moment all was dark .
Then the mist suddenly grew bright , and Dotterine's godmother was seen standing there .
` This , ' she said , turning to the king , ` is the girl whom you have always believed to be your sister , and who vanished during the siege .
She is not your sister at all , but the daughter of the king of a neighbouring country , who was given to your mother to bring up , to save her from the hands of a wizard . '
Then she vanished , and was never seen again , nor the wonder-working basket either ; but now that Dotterine's troubles were over she could get on without them , and she and the young king lived happily together till the end of their days .
