`` I think it is simply a disgrace to have a person like that in our class , '' said Edna Hayden in an injured tone .
`` And she doesn't seem a bit ashamed of it , either , '' said Agnes Walters .
`` Rather proud of it , I should say , '' returned her roommate , spitefully .
`` It seems to me that if I were so poor that I had to ` room ' myself and dress as dowdily as she does that I really couldn't look anybody in the face .
What must the boys think of her ?
And if it wasn't for her being in it , our class would be the smartest and dressiest in the college -- even those top-lofty senior girls admit that . ''
`` It's a shame , '' said Agnes , conclusively .
`` But she needn't expect to associate with our set .
I , for one , won't have anything to do with her . ''
`` Nor I. I think it is time she should be taught her place .
If we could only manage to inflict some decided snub on her , she might take the hint and give up trying to poke herself in where she doesn't belong .
The idea of her consenting to be elected on the freshmen executive !
But she seems impervious to snubs . ''
`` Edna , let's play a joke on her .
It will serve her right .
Let us send an invitation in somebody's name to the senior ` prom . ' ''
`` The very thing !
And sign Sidney Hill's name to it .
He's the handsomest and richest fellows at Payzant , and belongs to one of the best families in town , and he's awfully fastidious besides .
No doubt she will feel immensely flattered and , of course , she'll accept .
Just think how silly she'll feel when she finds out he never sent it .
Let's write it now , and send it at once .
There is no time to lose , for the ` prom ' is on Thursday night . ''
The freshmen co-eds at Payzant College did not like Grace Seeley -- that is to say , the majority of them .
They were a decidedly snobbish class that year .
No one could deny that Grace was clever , but she was poor , dressed very plainly -- `` dowdily , '' the girls said -- and `` roomed '' herself , that phrase meaning that she rented a little unfurnished room and cooked her own meals over an oil stove .
The `` senior prom , '' as it was called , was the annual reception which the senior class gave in the middle of every autumn term .
It was the smartest and gayest of all the college functions , and a Payzant co-ed who received an invitation to it counted herself fortunate .
The senior girls were included as a matter of course , but a junior , soph , or freshie could not go unless one of the senior boys invited her .
Grace Seeley was studying Greek in her tiny room that afternoon when the invitation was brought to her .
It was scrupulously orthodox in appearance and form , and Grace never doubted that it was genuine , although she felt much surprised that Sidney Hill , the leader of his class and the foremost figure in all college sports and societies , should have asked her to go with him to the senior prom .
But she was girlishly pleased at the prospect .
She was as fond of a good time as any other girl , and she had secretly wished very much that she could go to the brilliant and much talked about senior prom .
Grace was quite unaware of her own unpopularity among her class co-eds , although she thought it was very hard to get acquainted with them .
Without any false pride herself , and of a frank , independent nature , it never occurred to her that the other Payzant freshies could look down on her because she was poor , or resent her presence among them because she dressed plainly .
She straightway wrote a note of acceptance to Sidney Hill , and that young man naturally felt much mystified when he opened and read it in the college library next morning .
`` Grace Seeley , '' he pondered .
`` That's the jolly girl with the brown eyes that I met at the philomathic the other night .
She thanks me for my invitation to the senior prom , and accepts with pleasure .
Why , I certainly never invited her or anyone else to go with me to the senior prom .
There must be some mistake . ''
Grace passed him at this moment on her way to the Latin classroom .
She bowed and smiled in a friendly fashion and Sidney Hill felt decidedly uncomfortable .
What was he to do ?
He did not like to think of putting Miss Seeley in a false position because somebody had sent her an invitation in his name .
`` I suppose it is some cad who has a spite at me that has done it , '' he reflected , `` but if so I'll spoil his game .
I'll take Miss Seeley to the prom as if I had never intended doing anything else .
She shan't be humiliated just because there is someone at Payzant who would stoop to that sort of thing . ''
So he walked up the hall with Grace and expressed his pleasure at her acceptance , and on the evening of the prom he sent her a bouquet of white carnations , whose spicy fragrance reminded her of her own little garden at home .
Grace thought it extremely nice of him , and dressed in a flutter of pleasant anticipation .
Her gown was a very simple one of sheer white organdie , and was the only evening dress she had .
She knew there would be many smarter dresses at the reception , but the knowledge did not disturb her sensible head in the least .
She fingered the dainty white frills lovingly as she remembered the sunny summer days at home in the little sewing-room , where cherry boughs poked their blossoms in at the window , when her mother and sisters had helped her to make it , with laughing prophesies and speculations as to its first appearance .
Into seam and puff and frill many girlish hopes and dreams had been sewn , and they all came back to Grace as she put it on , and helped to surround her with an atmosphere of happiness .
When she was ready she picked up her bouquet and looked herself over in the mirror , from the top of her curly head to the tips of her white shoes , with a little nod of satisfaction .
Grace was not exactly pretty , but she had such a bright , happy face and such merry brown eyes and such a friendly smile that she was very pleasant to look upon , and a great many people thought so that night .
Grace had never in all her life before had so good a time as she had at that senior prom .
The seniors were quick to discover her unaffected originality and charm , and everywhere she went she was the centre of a merry group .
In short , Grace , as much to her own surprise as anyone's , found herself a social success .
Presently Sidney brought his brother up to be introduced , and the latter said : `` Miss Seeley , will you excuse my asking if you have a brother or any relative named Max Seeley ? ''
Grace nodded .
`` Oh , yes , my brother Max .
He is a doctor out west . ''
`` I was sure of it , '' said Murray Hill triumphantly .
`` You resemble him so strongly .
Please don't consider me as a stranger a minute longer , for Max and I are like brothers .
Indeed , I owe my life to him .
Last summer I was out there on a surveying expedition , and I took typhoid in a little out-of-the-way place where good nursing was not to be had for love or money .
Your brother attended me and he managed to pull me through .
He never left me day or night until I was out of danger , and he worked like a Trojan for me . ''
`` Dear old Max , '' said Grace , her brown eyes shining with pride and pleasure .
`` That is so like him .
He is such a dear brother and I haven't seen him for four years .
To see somebody who knows him so well is next best thing to seeing himself . ''
`` He is an awfully fine fellow , '' said Mr. Hill heartily , `` and I 'm delighted to have met the ` little sister ' he used to talk so much about .
I want you to come ever and meet my mother and sister .
They have heard me talk so much about Max that they think almost as much of him as I do , and they will be glad to meet his sister . ''
Mrs. Hill , a handsome , dignified lady who was one of the chaperones of the prom , received Grace warmly , while Beatrice Hill , an extremely pretty , smartly gowned girl , made her feel at home immediately .
`` You came with Sid , didn't you ? ''
she whispered .
`` Sid is so sly -- he never tells us whom he is going to take anywhere .
But when I saw you come in with him I knew I was going to like you , you looked so jolly .
And you 're really the sister of that splendid Dr. Seeley who saved Murray's life last summer ?
And to think you've been at Payzant nearly a whole term and we never knew it ! ''
`` Well , how have you enjoyed our prom , Miss Seeley ? ''
asked Sid , as they walked home together under the arching elms of the college campus .
`` Oh !
it was splendid , '' said Grace enthusiastically .
`` Everybody was so nice .
And then to meet someone who could tell me so much about Max !
I must write them home all about it before I sleep , just to calm my head a bit .
Mother and the girls will be so interested , and I must send Lou and Mab a carnation apiece for their scrapbooks . ''
`` Give me one back , please , '' said Sid .
And Grace with a little blush , did so .
That night , while Grace was slipping the stems of her carnations and putting them into water , three little bits of conversation were being carried on which it is necessary to report in order to round up this story neatly and properly , as all stories should be rounded up .
In the first place , Beatrice Hill was saying to Sidney , `` Oh , Sid , that Miss Seeley you had at the prom is a lovely girl .
I don't know when I've met anyone I liked so much .
She was so jolly and friendly and she didn't put on learned airs at all , as so many of those Payzant girls do .
I asked her all about herself and she told me , and all about her mother and sisters and home and the lovely times they had together , and how hard they worked to send her to college too , and how she taught school in vacations and ` roomed ' herself to help along .
Isn't it so brave and plucky of her !
I know we are going to be great friends . ''
`` I hope so , '' said Sidney briefly , `` because I have an idea that she and I are going to be very good friends too . ''
And Sidney went upstairs and put away a single white carnation very carefully .
In the second place , Mrs. Hill was saying to her eldest son , `` I liked that Miss Seeley very much .
She seemed a very sweet girl . ''
And , finally , Agnes Walters and Edna Hayden were discussing the matter in great mystification in their room .
`` I can't understand it at all , '' said Agnes slowly .
`` Sid Hill took her to the prom and he must have sent her those carnations too .
She could never have afforded them herself .
And did you see the fuss his people made over her ?
I heard Beatrice telling her that she was coming to call on her tomorrow , and Mrs. Hill said she must look upon ` Beechlawn ' as her second home while she was at Payzant .
If the Hills are going to take her up we'll have to be nice to her . ''
`` I suppose , '' said Edna conclusively , `` the truth of the matter is that Sid Hill meant to ask her anyway .
I dare say he asked her long ago , and she would know our invitation was a fraud .
So the joke is on ourselves , after all . ''
But , as you and I know , that , with the exception of the last sentence , was not the truth of the matter at all .
