The Taunton School had closed for the summer holidays .
Constance Foster and Miss Channing went down the long , elm-shaded street together , as they generally did , because they happened to board on the same block downtown .
Constance was the youngest teacher on the staff , and had charge of the Primary Department .
She had taught in Taunton school a year , and at its close she was as much of a stranger in the little corps of teachers as she had been at the beginning .
The others thought her stiff and unapproachable ; she was unpopular in a negative way with all except Miss Channing , who made it a profession to like everybody , the more so if other people disliked them .
Miss Channing was the oldest teacher on the staff , and taught the fifth grade .
She was short and stout and jolly ; nothing , not even the iciest reserve , ever daunted Miss Channing .
`` Isn't it good to think of two whole blessed months of freedom ? ''
she said jubilantly .
`` Two months to dream , to be lazy , to go where one pleases , no exercises to correct , no reports to make , no pupils to keep in order .
To be sure , I love them every one , but I'll love them all the more for a bit of a rest from them .
Isn't it good ? ''
A little satirical smile crossed Constance Foster's dark , discontented face , looking just then all the more discontented in contrast to Miss Channing's rosy , beaming countenance .
`` It's very good , if you have anywhere to go , or anybody who cares where you go , '' she said bitterly .
`` For my own part , I 'm sorry school is closed .
I 'd rather go on teaching all summer . ''
`` Heresy ! ''
said Miss Channing .
`` Rank heresy !
What are your vacation plans ? ''
`` I haven't any , '' said Constance wearily .
`` I've put off thinking about vacation as long as I possibly could .
You'll call that heresy , too , Miss Channing . ''
`` It's worse than heresy , '' said Miss Channing briskly .
`` It's a crying necessity for blue pills , that's what it is .
Your whole mental and moral and physical and spiritual system must be out of kilter , my child .
No vacation plans !
You must have vacation plans .
You must be going somewhere . ''
`` Oh , I suppose I'll hunt up a boarding place somewhere in the country , and go there and mope until September . ''
`` Have you no friends , Constance ? ''
`` No -- no , I haven't anybody in the world .
That is why I hate vacation , that is why I've hated to hear you and the others discussing your vacation plans .
You all have somebody to go to .
It has just filled me up with hatred of my life . ''
Miss Channing swallowed her honest horror at such a state of feeling .
`` Constance , tell me about yourself .
I've often wanted to ask you , but I was always a little afraid to .
You seem so reserved and -- and , as if you didn't want to be asked about yourself . ''
`` I know it .
I know I 'm stiff and hateful , and that nobody likes me , and that it is all my own fault .
No , never mind trying to smooth it over , Miss Channing .
It's the truth , and it hurts me , but I can't help it .
I 'm getting more bitter and pessimistic and unwholesome every day of my life .
Sometimes it seems as if I hated all the world because I 'm so lonely in it .
I 'm nobody .
My mother died when I was born -- and Father -- oh , I don't know .
One can't say anything against one's father , Miss Channing .
But I had a hard childhood -- or rather , I didn't have any childhood at all .
We were always moving about .
We didn't seem to have any friends at all .
My mother might have had relatives somewhere , but I never heard of any .
I don't even know where her home was .
Father never would talk of her .
He died two years ago , and since then I've been absolutely alone . ''
`` Oh , you poor girl , '' said Miss Channing softly .
`` I want friends , '' went on Constance , seeming to take a pleasure in open confession now that her tongue was loosed .
`` I've always just longed for somebody belonging to me to love .
I don't love anybody , Miss Channing , and when a girl is in that state , she is all wrong .
She gets hard and bitter and resentful -- I have , anyway .
I struggled against it at first , but it has been too much for me .
It poisons everything .
There is nobody to care anything about me , whether I live or die . ''
`` Oh , yes , there is One , '' said Miss Channing gently .
`` God cares , Constance . ''
Constance gave a disagreeable little laugh .
`` That sounds like Miss Williams -- she is so religious .
God doesn't mean anything to me , Miss Channing .
I've just the same resentful feeling toward him that I have for all the world , if he exists at all .
There , I've shocked you in good earnest now .
You should have left me alone , Miss Channing . ''
`` God means nothing to you because you've never had him translated to you through human love , Constance , '' said Miss Channing seriously .
`` No , you haven't shocked me -- at least , not in the way you mean .
I 'm only terribly sorry . ''
`` Oh , never mind me , '' said Constance , freezing up into her reserve again as if she regretted her confidences .
`` I'll get along all right .
This is one of my off days , when everything looks black . ''
Miss Channing walked on in silence .
She must help Constance , but Constance was not easily helped .
When school reopened , she might be able to do something worthwhile for the girl , but just now the only thing to do was to put her in the way of a pleasant vacation .
`` You spoke of boarding , '' she said , when Constance paused at the door of her boarding-house .
`` Have you any particular place in view ?
No ?
Well , I know a place which I am sure you would like .
I was there two summers ago .
It is a country place about a hundred miles from here .
Pine Valley is its name .
It's restful and homey , and the people are so nice .
If you like , I'll give you the address of the family I boarded with . ''
`` Thank you , '' said Constance indifferently .
`` I might as well go there as anywhere else . ''
`` Yes , but listen to me , dear .
Don't take your morbidness with you .
Open your heart to the summer , and let its sunshine in , and when you come back in the fall , come prepared to let us all be your friends .
We 'd like to be , and while friendship doesn't take the place of the love of one's own people , still it is a good and beautiful thing .
Besides , there are other unhappy people in the world -- try to help them when you meet them , and you'll forget about yourself .
Good-by for now , and I hope you'll have a pleasant vacation in spite of yourself . ''
Constance went to Pine Valley , but she took her evil spirit with her .
Not even the beauty of the valley , with its great balmy pines , and the cheerful friendliness of its people could exorcise it .
Nevertheless , she liked the place and found a wholesome pleasure in the long tramps she took along the piney roads .
`` I saw such a pretty spot in my ramble this afternoon , '' she told her landlady one evening .
`` It is about three miles from here at the end of the valley .
Such a picturesque , low-eaved little house , all covered over with honeysuckle .
It was set between a big orchard and an old-fashioned flower garden with great pines at the back . ''
`` Heartsease Farm , '' said Mrs. Hewitt promptly .
`` Bless you , there's only one place around here of that description .
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce , Uncle Charles and Aunt Flora , as we all call them , live there .
They are the dearest old couple alive .
You ought to go and see them , they 'd be delighted .
Aunt Flora just loves company .
They 're real lonesome by times . ''
`` Haven't they any children ? ''
asked Constance indifferently .
Her interest was in the place , not in the people .
`` No .
They had a niece once , though .
They brought her up and they just worshipped her .
She ran away with a worthless fellow -- I forget his name , if I ever knew it .
He was handsome and smooth-tongued , but he was a scamp .
She died soon after and it just broke their hearts .
They don't even know where she was buried , and they never heard anything more about her husband .
I've heard that Aunt Flora's hair turned snow-white in a month .
I'll take you up to see her some day when I find time . ''
Mrs. Hewitt did not find time , but thereafter Constance ordered her rambles that she might frequently pass Heartsease Farm .
The quaint old spot had a strange attraction for her .
She found herself learning to love it , and so unused was this unfortunate girl to loving anything that she laughed at herself for her foolishness .
One evening a fortnight later Constance , with her arms full of ferns and wood-lilies , came out of the pine woods above Heartsease Farm just as heavy raindrops began to fall .
She had prolonged her ramble unseasonably , and it was now nearly night , and very certainly a rainy night at that .
She was three miles from home and without even an extra wrap .
She hurried down the lane , but by the time she reached the main road , the few drops had become a downpour .
She must seek shelter somewhere , and Heartsease Farm was the nearest .
She pushed open the gate and ran up the slope of the yard between the hedges of sweetbriar .
She was spared the trouble of knocking , for as she came to a breathless halt on the big red sandstone doorstep , the door was flung open , and the white-haired , happy-faced little woman standing on the threshold had seized her hand and drawn her in bodily before she could speak a word .
`` I saw you coming from upstairs , '' said Aunt Flora gleefully , `` and I just ran down as fast as I could .
Dear , dear , you are a little wet .
But we'll soon dry you .
Come right in -- I've a bit of a fire in the grate , for the evening is chilly .
They laughed at me for loving a fire so , but there's nothing like its snap and sparkle .
You 're rained in for the night , and I 'm as glad as I can be .
I know who you are -- you are Miss Foster .
I 'm Aunt Flora , and this is Uncle Charles . ''
Constance let herself be put into a cushiony chair and fussed over with an unaccustomed sense of pleasure .
The rain was coming down in torrents , and she certainly was domiciled at Heartsease Farm for the night .
Somehow , she felt glad of it .
Mrs. Hewitt was right in calling Aunt Flora sweet , and Uncle Charles was a big , jolly , ruddy-faced old man with a hearty manner .
He shook Constance's hand until it ached , threw more pine knots in the fire and told her he wished it would rain every night if it rained down a nice little girl like her .
She found herself strangely attracted to the old couple .
The name of their farm was in perfect keeping with their atmosphere .
Constance's frozen soul expanded in it .
She chatted merrily and girlishly , feeling as if she had known them all her life .
When bedtime came , Aunt Flora took her upstairs to a little gable room .
`` My spare room is all in disorder just now , dearie , we have been painting its floor .
So I 'm going to put you here in Jeannie's room .
Someway you remind me of her , and you are just about the age she was when she left us .
If it wasn't for that , I don't think I could put you in her room , not even if every other floor in the house were being painted .
It is so sacred to me .
I keep it just as she left it , not a thing is changed .
Good night dearie , and I hope you'll have pleasant dreams . ''
When Constance found herself alone in the room , she looked about her with curiosity .
It was a very dainty , old-fashioned little room .
The floor was covered with braided mats ; the two square , small-paned windows were draped with snowy muslin .
In one corner was a little white bed with white curtains and daintily ruffled pillows , and in the other a dressing table with a gilt-framed mirror and the various knick-knacks of a girlish toilet .
There was a little blue rocker and an ottoman with a work-basket on it .
In the work-basket was a bit of unfinished , yellowed lace with a needle sticking in it .
A small bookcase under the sloping ceiling was filled with books .
Constance picked up one and opened it at the yellowing title-page .
She gave a little cry of surprise .
The name written across the page in a fine , dainty script was `` Jean Constance Irving , '' her mother's name !
For a moment Constance stood motionless .
Then she turned impulsively and hurried downstairs again .
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce were still in the sitting room talking to each other in the firelight .
`` Oh , '' cried Constance excitedly .
`` I must know , I must ask you .
This is my mother's name , Jean Constance Irving , can it be possible she was your little Jeannie ? ''
* * * * * A fortnight later Miss Channing received a letter from Constance .
`` I am so happy , '' she wrote .
`` Oh , Miss Channing , I have found ` mine own people , ' and Heartsease Farm is to be my own , own dear home for always .
`` It was such a strange coincidence , no , Aunt Flora says it was Providence , and I believe it was , too .
I came here one rainy night , and Aunty put me in my mother's room , think of it !
My own dear mother's room , and I found her name in a book .
And now the mystery is all cleared up , and we are so happy .
`` Everything is dear and beautiful , and almost the dearest and most beautiful thing is that I am getting acquainted with my mother , the mother I never knew before .
She no longer seems dead to me .
I feel that she lives and loves me , and I am learning to know her better every day .
I have her room and her books and all her little girlish possessions .
When I read her books , with their passages underlined by her hand , I feel as if she were speaking to me .
She was very good and sweet , in spite of her one foolish , bitter mistake , and I want to be as much like her as I can .
`` I said that this was almost the dearest and most beautiful thing .
The very dearest and most beautiful is this -- God means something to me now .
He means so much !
I remember that you said to me that he meant nothing to me because I had no human love in my heart to translate the divine .
But I have now , and it has led me to Him .
`` I am not going back to Taunton .
I have sent in my resignation .
I am going to stay home with Aunty and Uncle .
It is so sweet to say home and know what it means .
`` Aunty says you must come and spend all your next vacation with us .
You see , I have lots of vacation plans now , even for a year ahead .
After all , there is no need of the blue pills !
`` I feel like a new creature , made over from the heart and soul out .
I look back with shame and contrition on the old Constance .
I want you to forget her and only remember your grateful friend , the new Constance . ''
