Frances Farquhar was a beauty and was sometimes called a society butterfly by people who didn't know very much about it .
Her father was wealthy and her mother came of an extremely blue-blooded family .
Frances had been out for three years , and was a social favourite .
Consequently , it may be wondered why she was unhappy .
In plain English , Frances Farquhar had been jilted -- just a commonplace , everyday jilting !
She had been engaged to Paul Holcomb ; he was a very handsome fellow , somewhat too evidently aware of the fact , and Frances was very deeply in love with him -- or thought herself so , which at the time comes to pretty much the same thing .
Everybody in her set knew of her engagement , and all her girl friends envied her , for Holcomb was a matrimonial catch .
Then the crash came .
Nobody outside the family knew exactly what did happen , but everybody knew that the Holcomb-Farquhar match was off , and everybody had a different story to account for it .
The simple truth was that Holcomb was fickle and had fallen in love with another girl .
There was nothing of the man about him , and it did not matter to his sublimely selfish caddishness whether he broke Frances Farquhar 's heart or not .
He got his freedom and he married Maud Carroll in six months ' time .
The Farquhars , especially Ned , who was Frances 's older brother and seldom concerned himself about her except when the family honour was involved , were furious at the whole affair .
Mr. Farquhar stormed , and Ned swore , and Della lamented her vanished role of bridemaid .
As for Mrs. Farquhar , she cried and said it would ruin Frances 's future prospects .
The girl herself took no part in the family indignation meetings .
But she believed that her heart was broken .
Her love and her pride had suffered equally , and the effect seemed disastrous .
After a while the Farquhars calmed down and devoted themselves to the task of cheering Frances up .
This they did not accomplish .
She got through the rest of the season somehow and showed a proud front to the world , not even flinching when Holcomb himself crossed her path .
To be sure , she was pale and thin , and had about as much animation as a mask , but the same might be said of a score of other girls who were not suspected of having broken hearts .
When the summer came Frances asserted herself .
The Farquhars went to Green Harbour every summer .
But this time Frances said she would not go , and stuck to it .
The whole family took turns coaxing her and had nothing to show for their pains .
`` I 'm going up to Windy Meadows to stay with Aunt Eleanor while you are at the Harbour , '' she declared .
`` She has invited me often enough . ''
Ned whistled .
`` Jolly time you'll have of it , Sis .
Windy Meadows is about as festive as a funeral .
And Aunt Eleanor isn't lively , to put it in the mildest possible way . ''
`` I don't care if she isn't .
I want to get somewhere where people won't look at me and talk about -- that , '' said Frances , looking ready to cry .
Ned went out and swore at Holcomb again , and then advised his mother to humour Frances .
Accordingly , Frances went to Windy Meadows .
Windy Meadows was , as Ned had said , the reverse of lively .
It was a pretty country place , with a sort of fag-end by way of a little fishing village , huddled on a wind-swept bit of beach , locally known as the `` Cove . ''
Aunt Eleanor was one of those delightful people , so few and far between in this world , who have perfectly mastered the art of minding their own business exclusively .
She left Frances in peace .
She knew that her niece had had `` some love trouble or other , '' and hadn't gotten over it rightly .
`` It 's always best to let those things take their course , '' said this philosophical lady to her `` help '' and confidant , Margaret Ann Peabody .
`` She'll get over it in time -- though she doesn't think so now , bless you . ''
For the first fortnight Frances revelled in a luxury of unhindered sorrow .
She could cry all night -- and all day too , if she wished -- without having to stop because people might notice that her eyes were red .
She could mope in her room all she liked .
And there were no men who demanded civility .
When the fortnight was over , Aunt Eleanor took crafty counsel with herself .
The letting-alone policy was all very well , but it would not do to have the girl die on her hands .
Frances was getting paler and thinner every day -- and she was spoiling her eyelashes by crying .
`` I wish , '' said Aunt Eleanor one morning at breakfast , while Frances pretended to eat , `` that I could go and take Corona Sherwood out for a drive today .
I promised her last week that I would , but I've never had time yet .
And today is baking and churning day .
It 's a shame .
Poor Corona ! ''
`` Who is she ? ''
asked Frances , trying to realize that there was actually someone in the world besides herself who was to be pitied .
`` She is our minister 's sister .
She has been ill with rheumatic fever .
She is better now , but doesn't seem to get strong very fast .
She ought to go out more , but she isn't able to walk .
I really must try and get around tomorrow .
She keeps house for her brother at the manse .
He isn't married , you know . ''
Frances didn't know , nor did she in the least degree care .
But even the luxury of unlimited grief palls , and Frances was beginning to feel this vaguely .
She offered to go and take Miss Sherwood out driving .
`` I've never seen her , '' she said , `` but I suppose that doesn't matter .
I can drive Grey Tom in the phaeton , if you like . ''
It was just what Aunt Eleanor intended , and she saw Frances drive off that afternoon with a great deal of satisfaction .
`` Give my love to Corona , '' she told her , `` and say for me that she isn't to go messing about among those shore people until she 's perfectly well .
The manse is the fourth house after you turn the third corner . ''
Frances kept count of the corners and the houses and found the manse .
Corona Sherwood herself came to the door .
Frances had been expecting an elderly personage with spectacles and grey crimps ; she was surprised to find that the minister 's sister was a girl of about her own age and possessed of a distinct worldly prettiness .
Corona was dark , with a different darkness from that of Frances , who had ivory outlines and blue-black hair , while Corona was dusky and piquant .
Her eyes brightened with delight when Frances told her errand .
`` How good of you and Miss Eleanor !
I am not strong enough to walk far yet -- or do anything useful , in fact , and Elliott so seldom has time to take me out . ''
`` Where shall we go ? ''
asked Frances when they started .
`` I don't know much about this locality . ''
`` Can we drive to the Cove first ?
I want to see poor little Jacky Hart .
He has been so sick -- '' `` Aunt Eleanor positively forbade that , '' said Frances dubiously .
`` Will it be safe to disobey her ? ''
Corona laughed .
`` Miss Eleanor blames my poor shore people for making me sick at first , but it was really not that at all .
And I want to see Jacky Hart so much .
He has been ill for some time with some disease of the spine and he is worse lately .
I 'm sure Miss Eleanor won't mind my calling just to see him . ''
Frances turned Grey Tom down the shore road that ran to the Cove and past it to silvery , wind-swept sands , rimming sea expanses crystal clear .
Jacky Hart 's home proved to be a tiny little place overflowing with children .
Mrs. Hart was a pale , tired-looking woman with the patient , farseeing eyes so often found among the women who watch sea and shore every day and night of their lives for those who sometimes never return .
She spoke of Jacky with the apathy of hopelessness .
The doctor said he would not last much longer .
She told all her troubles unreservedly to Corona in her monotonous voice .
Her `` man '' was drinking again and the mackerel catch was poor .
When Mrs. Hart asked Corona to go in and see Jacky , Frances went too .
The sick boy , a child with a delicate , wasted face and large , bright eyes , lay in a tiny bedroom off the kitchen .
The air was hot and heavy .
Mrs. Hart stood at the foot of the bed with her tragic face .
`` We have to set up nights with him now , '' she said .
`` It 's awful hard on me and my man .
The neighbours are kind enough and come sometimes , but most of them have enough to do .
His medicine has to be given every half hour .
I've been up for three nights running now .
Jabez was off to the tavern for two .
I 'm just about played out . ''
She suddenly broke down and began to cry , or rather whimper , in a heart-broken way .
Corona looked troubled .
`` I wish I could come tonight , Mrs. Hart , but I 'm afraid I 'm really not strong enough yet . ''
`` I don't know much about sickness , '' spoke up Frances firmly , `` but if to sit by the child and give him his medicine regularly is all that is necessary , I am sure I can do that .
I'll come and sit up with Jacky tonight if you care to have me . ''
Afterwards , when she and Corona were driving away , she wondered a good deal at herself .
But Corona was so evidently pleased with her offer , and took it all so much as a matter of course , that Frances had not the courage to display her wonder .
They had their drive through the great green bowl of the country valley , brimming over with sunshine , and afterwards Corona made Frances go home with her to tea .
Rev. Elliott Sherwood had got back from his pastoral visitations , and was training his sweet peas in the way they should go against the garden fence .
He was in his shirt sleeves and wore a big straw hat , and seemed in nowise disconcerted thereby .
Corona introduced him , and he took Grey Tom away and put him in the barn .
Then he went back to his sweet peas .
He had had his tea , he said , so that Frances did not see him again until she went home .
She thought he was a very indifferent young man , and not half so nice as his sister .
But she went and sat up with Jacky Hart that night , getting to the Cove at dark , when the sea was a shimmer of fairy tints and the boats were coming in from the fishing grounds .
Jacky greeted her with a wonderful smile , and later on she found herself watching alone by his bed .
The tiny lamp on the table burned dim , and outside , on the rocks , there was loud laughing and talking until a late hour .
Afterwards a silence fell , through which the lap of the waves on the sands and the far-off moan of the Atlantic surges came sonorously .
Jacky was restless and wakeful , but did not suffer , and liked to talk .
Frances listened to him with a new-born power of sympathy , which she thought she must have caught from Corona .
He told her all the tragedy of his short life , and how bad he felt , about Dad 's taking to drink and Mammy 's having to work so hard .
The pitiful little sentences made Frances 's heart ache .
The maternal instinct of the true woman awoke in her .
She took a sudden liking to the child .
He was a spiritual little creature , and his sufferings had made him old and wise .
Once in the night he told Frances that he thought the angels must look like her .
`` You are so sweet pretty , '' he said gravely .
`` I never saw anyone so pretty , not even Miss C'rona .
You look like a picture I once saw on Mr. Sherwood 's table when I was up at the manse one day ` fore I got so bad I couldn't walk .
It was a woman with a li'l baby in her arms and a kind of rim round her head .
I would like something most awful much . ''
`` What is it , dear ? ''
said Frances gently .
`` If I can get or do it for you , I will . ''
`` You could , '' he said wistfully , `` but maybe you won't want to .
But I do wish you 'd come here just once every day and sit here five minutes and let me look at you -- just that .
Will it be too much trouble ? ''
Frances stooped and kissed him .
`` I will come every day , Jacky , '' she said ; and a look of ineffable content came over the thin little face .
He put up his hand and touched her cheek .
`` I knew you were good -- as good as Miss C'rona , and she is an angel .
I love you . ''
When morning came Frances went home .
It was raining , and the sea was hidden in mist .
As she walked along the wet road , Elliott Sherwood came splashing along in a little two-wheeled gig and picked her up .
He wore a raincoat and a small cap , and did not look at all like a minister -- or , at least , like Frances 's conception of one .
Not that she knew much about ministers .
Her own minister at home -- that is to say , the minister of the fashionable uptown church which she attended -- was a portly , dignified old man with silvery hair and gold-rimmed glasses , who preached scholarly , cultured sermons and was as far removed from Frances 's personal life as a star in the Milky Way .
But a minister who wore rubber coats and little caps and drove about in a two-wheeled gig , very much mud-bespattered , and who talked about the shore people as if they were household intimates of his , was absolutely new to Frances .
She could not help seeing , however , that the crisp brown hair under the edges of the unclerical-looking cap curled around a remarkably well-shaped forehead , beneath which flashed out a pair of very fine dark-grey eyes ; he had likewise a good mouth , which was resolute and looked as if it might be stubborn on occasion ; and , although he was not exactly handsome , Frances decided that she liked his face .
He tucked the wet , slippery rubber apron of his conveyance about her and then proceeded to ask questions .
Jacky Hart 's case had to be reported on , and then Mr. Sherwood took out a notebook and looked over its entries intently .
`` Do you want any more work of that sort to do ? ''
he asked her abruptly .
Frances felt faintly amused .
He talked to her as he might have done to Corona , and seemed utterly oblivious of the fact that her profile was classic and her eyes delicious .
His indifference piqued Frances a little in spite of her murdered heart .
Well , if there was anything she could do she might as well do it , she told him briefly , and he , with equal brevity , gave her directions for finding some old lady who lived on the Elm Creek road and to whom Corona had read tracts .
`` Tracts are a mild dissipation of Aunt Clorinda 's , '' he said .
`` She fairly revels in them .
She is half blind and has missed Corona very much . ''
There were other matters also -- a dozen or so of factory girls who needed to be looked after and a family of ragged children to be clothed .
Frances , in some dismay , found herself pledged to help in all directions , and then ways and means had to be discussed .
The long , wet road , sprinkled with houses , from whose windows people were peering to see `` what girl the minister was driving , '' seemed very short .
Frances did not know it , but Elliott Sherwood drove a full mile out of his way that morning to take her home , and risked being late for a very important appointment -- from which it may be inferred that he was not quite so blind to the beautiful as he had seemed .
Frances went through the rain that afternoon and read tracts to Aunt Clorinda .
She was so dreadfully tired that night that she forgot to cry , and slept well and soundly .
In the morning she went to church for the first time since coming to Windy Meadows .
It did not seem civil not to go to hear a man preach when she had gone slumming with his sister and expected to assist him with his difficulties over factory girls .
She was surprised at Elliott Sherwood 's sermon , and mentally wondered why such a man had been allowed to remain for four years in a little country pulpit .
Later on Aunt Eleanor told her it was for his health .
`` He was not strong when he left college , so he came here .
But he is as well as ever now , and I expect he will soon be gobbled up by some of your city churches .
He preached in Castle Street church last winter , and I believe they were delighted with him . ''
This was all of a month later .
During that time Frances thought that she must have been re-created , so far was her old self left behind .
She seldom had an idle moment ; when she had , she spent it with Corona .
The two girls had become close friends , loving each other with the intensity of exceptional and somewhat exclusive natures .
Corona grew strong slowly , and could do little for her brother 's people , but Frances was an excellent proxy , and Elliott Sherwood kept her employed .
Incidentally , Frances had come to know the young minister , with his lofty ideals and earnest efforts , very well .
He had got into a ridiculous habit of going to her -- her , Frances Farquhar !
-- for advice in many perplexities .
Frances had nursed Jacky Hart and talked temperance to his father and read tracts to Aunt Clorinda and started a reading circle among the factory girls and fitted out all the little Jarboes with dresses and coaxed the shore children to go to school and patched up a feud between two ` longshore families and done a hundred other things of a similar nature .
Aunt Eleanor said nothing , as was her wise wont , but she talked it over with Margaret Ann Peabody , and agreed with that model domestic when she said : `` Work 'll keep folks out of trouble and help 'em out of it when they are in .
Just as long as that girl brooded over her own worries and didn't think of anyone but herself she was miserable .
But as soon as she found other folks were unhappy , too , and tried to help 'em out a bit , she helped herself most of all .
She 's getting fat and rosy , and it is plain to be seen that the minister thinks there isn't the like of her on this planet . ''
One night Frances told Corona all about Holcomb .
Elliott Sherwood was away , and Frances had gone up to stay all night with Corona at the manse .
They were sitting in the moonlit gloom of Corona 's room , and Frances felt confidential .
She had expected to feel badly and cry a little while she told it .
But she did not , and before she was half through , it did not seem as if it were worth telling after all .
Corona was deeply sympathetic .
She did not say a great deal , but what she did say put Frances on better terms with herself .
`` Oh , I shall get over it , '' the latter declared finally .
`` Once I thought I never would -- but the truth is , I 'm getting over it now .
I 'm very glad -- but I 'm horribly ashamed , too , to find myself so fickle . ''
`` I don't think you are fickle , Frances , '' said Corona gravely , `` because I don't think you ever really loved that man at all .
You only imagined you did .
And he was not worthy of you .
You are so good , dear ; those shore people just worship you .
Elliott says you can do anything you like with them . ''
Frances laughed and said she was not at all good .
Yet she was pleased .
Later on , when she was brushing her hair before the mirror and smiling absently at her reflection , Corona said : `` Frances , what is it like to be as pretty as you are ? ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Frances by way of answer .
`` It is not nonsense at all .
You must know you are very lovely , Frances .
Elliott says you are the most beautiful girl he has ever seen . ''
For a girl who has told herself a dozen times that she would never care again for masculine admiration , Frances experienced a very odd thrill of delight on hearing that the minister of Windy Meadows thought her beautiful .
She knew he admired her intellect and had immense respect for what he called her `` genius for influencing people , '' but she had really believed all along that , if Elliott Sherwood had been asked , he could not have told whether she was a whit better looking than Kitty Martin of the Cove , who taught a class in Sunday school and had round rosy cheeks and a snub nose .
The summer went very quickly .
One day Jacky Hart died -- drifted out with the ebb tide , holding Frances 's hand .
She had loved the patient , sweet-souled little creature and missed him greatly .
When the time to go home came Frances felt dull .
She hated to leave Windy Meadows and Corona and her dear shore people and Aunt Eleanor and -- and -- well , Margaret Ann Peabody .
Elliott Sherwood came up the night before she went away .
When Margaret Ann showed him reverentially in , Frances was sitting in a halo of sunset light , and the pale , golden chrysanthemums in her hair shone like stars in the blue-black coils .
Elliott Sherwood had been absent from Windy Meadows for several days .
There was a subdued jubilance in his manner .
`` You think I have come to say good-bye , but I haven't , '' he told her .
`` I shall see you again very soon , I hope .
I have just received a call to Castle Street church , and it is my intention to accept .
So Corona and I will be in town this winter . ''
Frances tried to tell him how glad she was , but only stammered .
Elliott Sherwood came close up to her as she stood by the window in the fading light , and said -- But on second thoughts I shall not record what he said -- or what she said either .
Some things should be left to the imagination .
