One summer's day a little tailor sat on his table by the window in the best of spirits , and sewed for dear life .
As he was sitting thus a peasant woman came down the street , calling out : `` Good jam to sell , good jam to sell . ''
This sounded sweetly in the tailor's ears ; he put his frail little head out of the window , and shouted : `` up here , my good woman , and you'll find a willing customer . ''
The woman climbed up the three flights of stairs with her heavy basket to the tailor's room , and he made her spread out all the pots in a row before him .
He examined them all , lifted them up and smelled them , and said at last : `` This jam seems good , weigh me four ounces of it , my good woman ; and even if it's a quarter of a pound I won't stick at it . ''
The woman , who had hoped to find a good market , gave him what he wanted , but went away grumbling wrathfully .
`` Now heaven shall bless this jam for my use , '' cried the little tailor , `` and it shall sustain and strengthen me . ''
He fetched some bread out of a cupboard , cut a round off the loaf , and spread the jam on it .
`` That won't taste amiss , '' he said ; `` but I'll finish that waistcoat first before I take a bite . ''
He placed the bread beside him , went on sewing , and out of the lightness of his heart kept on making his stitches bigger and bigger .
In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam rose to the ceiling , where heaps of flies were sitting , and attracted them to such an extent that they swarmed on to it in masses .
`` Ha !
who invited you ? ''
said the tailor , and chased the unwelcome guests away .
But the flies , who didn't understand English , refused to let themselves be warned off , and returned again in even greater numbers .
At last the little tailor , losing all patience , reached out of his chimney corner for a duster , and exclaiming : `` Wait , and I'll give it to you , '' he beat them mercilessly with it .
When he left off he counted the slain , and no fewer than seven lay dead before him with outstretched legs .
`` What a desperate fellow I am ! ''
said he , and was filled with admiration at his own courage .
`` The whole town must know about this '' ; and in great haste the little tailor cut out a girdle , hemmed it , and embroidered on it in big letters , `` Seven at a blow . ''
`` What did I say , the town ?
no , the whole world shall hear of it , '' he said ; and his heart beat for joy as a lamb wags his tail .
The tailor strapped the girdle round his waist and set out into the wide world , for he considered his workroom too small a field for his prowess .
Before he set forth he looked round about him , to see if there was anything in the house he could take with him on his journey ; but he found nothing except an old cheese , which he took possession of .
In front of the house he observed a bird that had been caught in some bushes , and this he put into his wallet beside the cheese .
Then he went on his way merrily , and being light and agile he never felt tired .
His way led up a hill , on the top of which sat a powerful giant , who was calmly surveying the landscape .
The little tailor went up to him , and greeting him cheerfully said : `` Good-day , friend ; there you sit at your ease viewing the whole wide world .
I 'm just on my way there .
What do you say to accompanying me ? ''
The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor , and said : `` What a poor wretched little creature you are ! ''
`` That's a good joke , '' answered the little tailor , and unbuttoning his coat he showed the giant the girdle .
`` There now , you can read what sort of a fellow I am . ''
The giant read : `` Seven at a blow '' ; and thinking they were human beings the tailor had slain , he conceived a certain respect for the little man .
But first he thought he 'd test him , so taking up a stone in his hand , he squeezed it till some drops of water ran out .
`` Now you do the same , '' said the giant , `` if you really wish to be thought strong . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
said the little tailor ; `` that's child's play to me , '' so he dived into his wallet , brought out the cheese , and pressed it till the whey ran out .
`` My squeeze was in sooth better than yours , '' said he .
The giant didn't know what to say , for he couldn't have believed it of the little fellow .
To prove him again , the giant lifted a stone and threw it so high that the eye could hardly follow it .
`` Now , my little pigmy , let me see you do that . ''
`` Well thrown , '' said the tailor ; `` but , after all , your stone fell to the ground ; I'll throw one that won't come down at all . ''
He dived into his wallet again , and grasping the bird in his hand , he threw it up into the air .
The bird , enchanted to be free , soared up into the sky , and flew away never to return .
`` Well , what do you think of that little piece of business , friend ? ''
asked the tailor .
`` You can certainly throw , '' said the giant ; `` but now let's see if you can carry a proper weight . ''
With these words he led the tailor to a huge oak tree which had been felled to the ground , and said : `` If you are strong enough , help me to carry the tree out of the wood . ''
`` Most certainly , '' said the little tailor : `` just you take the trunk on your shoulder ; I'll bear the top and branches , which is certainly the heaviest part . ''
The giant laid the trunk on his shoulder , but the tailor sat at his ease among the branches ; and the giant , who couldn't see what was going on behind him , had to carry the whole tree , and the little tailor into the bargain .
There he sat behind in the best of spirits , lustily whistling a tune , as if carrying the tree were mere sport .
The giant , after dragging the heavy weight for some time , could get on no further , and shouted out : `` Hi !
I must let the tree fall . ''
The tailor sprang nimbly down , seized the tree with both hands as if he had carried it the whole way and said to the giant : `` Fancy a big lout like you not being able to carry a tree ! ''
They continued to go on their way together , and as they passed by a cherry tree the giant grasped the top of it , where the ripest fruit hung , gave the branches into the tailor's hand , and bade him eat .
But the little tailor was far too weak to hold the tree down , and when the giant let go the tree swung back into the air , bearing the little tailor with it .
When he had fallen to the ground again without hurting himself , the giant said : `` What !
do you mean to tell me you haven't the strength to hold down a feeble twig ? ''
`` It wasn't strength that was wanting , '' replied the tailor ; `` do you think that would have been anything for a man who has killed seven at a blow ?
I jumped over the tree because the huntsmen are shooting among the branches near us .
Do you do the like if you dare . ''
The giant made an attempt , but couldn't get over the tree , and stuck fast in the branches , so that here too the little tailor had the better of him .
`` Well , you 're a fine fellow , after all , '' said the giant ; `` come and spend the night with us in our cave . ''
The little tailor willingly consented to do this , and following his friend they went on till they reached a cave where several other giants were sitting round a fire , each holding a roast sheep in his hand , of which he was eating .
The little tailor looked about him , and thought : `` Yes , there's certainly more room to turn round in here than in my workshop . ''
The giant showed him a bed and bade him lie down and have a good sleep .
But the bed was too big for the little tailor , so he didn't get into it , but crept away into the corner .
At midnight , when the giant thought the little tailor was fast asleep , he rose up , and taking his big iron walking-stick , he broke the bed in two with a blow , and thought he had made an end of the little grasshopper .
At early dawn the giants went off to the wood , and quite forgot about the little tailor , till all of a sudden they met him trudging along in the most cheerful manner .
The giants were terrified at the apparition , and , fearful lest he should slay them , they all took to their heels as fast as they could .
The little tailor continued to follow his nose , and after he had wandered about for a long time he came to the courtyard of a royal palace , and feeling tired he lay down on the grass and fell asleep .
While he lay there the people came , and looking him all over read on his girdle : `` Seven at a blow . ''
`` Oh ! ''
they said , `` what can this great hero of a hundred fights want in our peaceful land ?
He must indeed be a mighty man of valor . ''
They went and told the King about him , and said what a weighty and useful man he 'd be in time of war , and that it would be well to secure him at any price .
This counsel pleased the King , and he sent one of his courtiers down to the little tailor , to offer him , when he awoke , a commission in their army .
The messenger remained standing by the sleeper , and waited till he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes , when he tendered his proposal .
`` That's the very thing I came here for , '' he answered ; `` I am quite ready to enter the King's service . ''
So he was received with all honor , and given a special house of his own to live in .
But the other officers resented the success of the little tailor , and wished him a thousand miles away .
`` What's to come of it all ? ''
they asked each other ; `` if we quarrel with him , he'll let out at us , and at every blow seven will fall .
There'll soon be an end of us . ''
So they resolved to go in a body to the King , and all to send in their papers .
`` We are not made , '' they said , `` to hold out against a man who kills seven at a blow . ''
The King was grieved at the thought of losing all his faithful servants for the sake of one man , and he wished heartily that he had never set eyes on him , or that he could get rid of him .
But he didn't dare to send him away , for he feared he might kill him along with his people , and place himself on the throne .
He pondered long and deeply over the matter , and finally came to a conclusion .
He sent to the tailor and told him that , seeing what a great and warlike hero he was , he was about to make him an offer .
In a certain wood of his kingdom there dwelled two giants who did much harm ; by the way they robbed , murdered , burned , and plundered everything about them ; `` no one could approach them without endangering his life .
But if he could overcome and kill these two giants he should have his only daughter for a wife , and half his kingdom into the bargain ; he might have a hundred horsemen , too , to back him up . ''
`` That's the very thing for a man like me , '' thought the little tailor ; `` one doesn't get the offer of a beautiful princess and half a kingdom every day . ''
`` Done with you , '' he answered ; `` I'll soon put an end to the giants .
But I haven't the smallest need of your hundred horsemen ; a fellow who can slay seven men at a blow need not be afraid of two . ''
The little tailor set out , and the hundred horsemen followed him .
When he came to the outskirts of the wood he said to his followers : `` You wait here , I'll manage the giants by myself '' ; and he went on into the wood , casting his sharp little eyes right and left about him .
After a while he spied the two giants lying asleep under a tree , and snoring till the very boughs bent with the breeze .
The little tailor lost no time in filling his wallet with stones , and then climbed up the tree under which they lay .
When he got to about the middle of it he slipped along a branch till he sat just above the sleepers , when he threw down one stone after the other on the nearest giant .
The giant felt nothing for a long time , but at last he woke up , and pinching his companion said : `` What did you strike me for ? ''
`` I didn't strike you , '' said the other , `` you must be dreaming . ''
They both lay down to sleep again , and the tailor threw down a stone on the second giant , who sprang up and cried : `` What's that for ?
Why did you throw something at me ? ''
`` I didn't throw anything , '' growled the first one .
They wrangled on for a time , till , as both were tired , they made up the matter and fell asleep again .
The little tailor began his game once more , and flung the largest stone he could find in his wallet with all his force , and hit the first giant on the chest .
`` This is too much of a good thing ! ''
he yelled , and springing up like a madman , he knocked his companion against the tree till he trembled .
He gave , however , as good as he got , and they became so enraged that they tore up trees and beat each other with them , till they both fell dead at once on the ground .
Then the little tailor jumped down .
`` It's a mercy , '' he said , `` that they didn't root up the tree on which I was perched , or I should have had to jump like a squirrel on to another , which , nimble though I am , would have been no easy job . ''
He drew his sword and gave each of the giants a very fine thrust or two on the breast , and then went to the horsemen and said : `` The deed is done , I've put an end to the two of them ; but I assure you it has been no easy matter , for they even tore up trees in their struggle to defend themselves ; but all that's of no use against one who slays seven men at a blow . ''
`` Weren't you wounded ? ''
asked the horsemen .
`` No fear , '' answered the tailor ; `` they haven't touched a hair of my head . ''
But the horsemen wouldn't believe him till they rode into the wood and found the giants weltering in their blood , and the trees lying around , torn up by the roots .
The little tailor now demanded the promised reward from the King , but he repented his promise , and pondered once more how he could rid himself of the hero .
`` Before you obtain the hand of my daughter and half my kingdom , '' he said to him , `` you must do another deed of valor .
A unicorn is running about loose in the wood , and doing much mischief ; you must first catch it . ''
`` I 'm even less afraid of one unicorn than of two giants ; seven at a blow , that's my motto . ''
He took a piece of cord and an axe with him , went out to the wood , and again told the men who had been sent with him to remain outside .
He hadn't to search long , for the unicorn soon passed by , and , on perceiving the tailor , dashed straight at him as though it were going to spike him on the spot .
`` Gently , gently , '' said he , `` not so fast , my friend '' ; and standing still he waited till the beast was quite near , when he sprang lightly behind a tree ; the unicorn ran with all its force against the tree , and rammed its horn so firmly into the trunk that it had no strength left to pull it out again , and was thus successfully captured .
`` Now I've caught my bird , '' said the tailor , and he came out from behind the tree , placed the cord round its neck first , then struck the horn out of the tree with his axe , and when everything was in order led the beast before the King .
Still the King didn't want to give him the promised reward and made a third demand .
The tailor was to catch a wild boar for him that did a great deal of harm in the wood ; and he might have the huntsmen to help him .
`` Willingly , '' said the tailor ; `` that's mere child's play . ''
But he didn't take the huntsmen into the wood with him , and they were well enough pleased to remain behind , for the wild boar had often received them in a manner which did not make them desire its further acquaintance .
As soon as the boar perceived the tailor it ran at him with foaming mouth and gleaming teeth , and tried to knock him down ; but our alert little friend ran into a chapel that stood near , and got out of the window again with a jump .
The boar pursued him into the church , but the tailor skipped round to the door , and closed it securely .
So the raging beast was caught , for it was far too heavy and unwieldy to spring out of the window .
The little tailor summoned the huntsmen together , that they might see the prisoner with their own eyes .
Then the hero betook himself to the King , who was obliged now , whether he liked it or not , to keep his promise , and hand him over his daughter and half his kingdom .
Had he known that no hero-warrior , but only a little tailor stood before him , it would have gone even more to his heart .
So the wedding was celebrated with much splendor and little joy , and the tailor became a king .
After a time the Queen heard her husband saying one night in his sleep : `` My lad , make that waistcoat and patch these trousers , or I'll box your ears . ''
Thus she learned in what rank the young gentleman had been born , and next day she poured forth her woes to her father , and begged him to help her to get rid of a husband who was nothing more nor less than a tailor .
The King comforted her , and said : `` Leave your bedroom door open to-night , my servants shall stand outside , and when your husband is fast asleep they shall enter , bind him fast , and carry him on to a ship , which shall sail away out into the wide ocean . ''
The Queen was well satisfied with the idea , but the armor-bearer , who had overheard everything , being much attached to his young master , went straight to him and revealed the whole plot .
`` I'll soon put a stop to the business , '' said the tailor .
That night he and his wife went to bed at the usual time ; and when she thought he had fallen asleep she got up , opened the door , and then lay down again .
The little tailor , who had only pretended to be asleep , began to call out in a clear voice : `` My lad , make that waistcoat and patch those trousers , or I'll box your ears .
I have killed seven at a blow , slain two giants , led a unicorn captive , and caught a wild boar , then why should I be afraid of those men standing outside my door ? ''
The men , when they heard the tailor saying these words , were so terrified that they fled as if pursued by a wild army , and didn't dare go near him again .
So the little tailor was and remained a king all the days of his life .
My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire , and I was the third of four sons .
He sent me to Cambridge at fourteen years old , and after studying there three years I was bound apprentice to Mr. Bates , a famous surgeon in London .
There , as my father now and then sent me small sums of money , I spent them in learning navigation , and other arts useful to those who travel , as I always believed it would be some time or other my fortune to do .
Three years after my leaving him my good master , Mr. Bates , recommended me as ship's surgeon to the `` Swallow , '' on which I voyaged three years .
When I came back I settled in London , and , having taken part of a small house , I married Miss Mary Burton , daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton , hosier .
But my good master Bates died two years after ; and as I had few friends my business began to fail , and I determined to go again to sea .
After several voyages , I accepted an offer from Captain W. Pritchard , master of the `` Antelope , '' who was making a voyage to the South Sea .
We set sail from Bristol , May 4 , 1699 ; and our voyage at first was very prosperous .
But in our passage to the East Indies we were driven by a violent storm to the north-west of Van Diemen's Land .
Twelve of our crew died from hard labor and bad food , and the rest were in a very weak condition .
On the 5th of November , the weather being very hazy , the seamen spied a rock within 120 yards of the ship ; but the wind was so strong that we were driven straight upon it , and immediately split .
Six of the crew , of whom I was one , letting down the boat , got clear of the ship , and we rowed about three leagues , till we could work no longer .
We therefore trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves ; and in about half an hour the boat was upset by a sudden squall .
What became of my companions in the boat , or those who escaped on the rock or were left in the vessel , I can not tell ; but I conclude they were all lost .
For my part , I swam as fortune directed me , and was pushed forward by wind and tide ; but when I was able to struggle no longer I found myself within my depth .
By this time the storm was much abated .
I reached the shore at last , about eight o'clock in the evening , and advanced nearly half a mile inland , but could not discover any sign of inhabitants .
I was extremely tired , and with the heat of the weather I found myself much inclined to sleep .
I lay down on the grass , which was very short and soft , and slept sounder than ever I did in my life for about nine hours .
When I woke , it was just daylight .
I attempted to rise , but could not ; for as I happened to be lying on my back , I found my arms and legs were fastened on each side to the ground ; and my hair , which was long and thick , tied down in the same manner .
I could only look upward .
The sun began to grow hot , and the light hurt my eyes .
I heard a confused noise about me , but could see nothing except the sky .
In a little time I felt something alive and moving on my left leg , which , advancing gently over my breast , came almost up to my chin , when , bending my eyes downward , I perceived it to be a human creature , not six inches high , with a bow and arrow in his hands , and a quiver at his back .
In the meantime I felt at least forty more following the first .
I was in the utmost astonishment , and roared so loud that they all ran back in a fright ; and some of them were hurt with the falls they got by leaping from my sides upon the ground .
However , they soon returned , and one of them , who ventured so far as to get a full sight of my face , lifted up his hands in admiration .
I lay all this while in great uneasiness ; but at length , struggling to get loose , I succeeded in breaking the strings that fastened my left arm to the ground ; and at the same time , with a violent pull that gave me extreme pain , I a little loosened the strings that tied down my hair , so that I was just able to turn my head about two inches .
But the creatures ran off a second time before I could seize them , whereupon there was a great shout , and in an instant I felt above a hundred arrows discharged on my left hand , which pricked me like so many needles .
Moreover , they shot another flight into the air , of which some fell on my face , which I immediately covered with my left hand .
When this shower of arrows was over I groaned with grief and pain , and then , striving again to get loose , they discharged another flight of arrows larger than the first , and some of them tried to stab me with their spears ; but by good luck I had on a leather jacket , which they could not pierce .
By this time I thought it most prudent to lie still till night , when , my left hand being already loose , I could easily free myself ; and as for the inhabitants , I thought I might be a match for the greatest army they could bring against me if they were all of the same size as him I saw .
When the people observed that I was quiet they discharged no more arrows , but by the noise I heard I knew that their number was increased ; and about four yards from me , for more than an hour , there was a knocking , like people at work .
Then , turning my head that way as well as the pegs and strings would let me , I saw a stage set up , about a foot and a half from the ground , with two or three ladders to mount it .
From this , one of them , who seemed to be a person of quality , made me a long speech , of which I could not understand a word , though I could tell from his manner that he sometimes threatened me , and sometimes spoke with pity and kindness .
I answered in few words , but in the most submissive manner ; and , being almost famished with hunger , I could not help showing my impatience by putting my finger frequently to my mouth , to signify that I wanted food .
He understood me very well , and , descending from the stage , commanded that several ladders should be set against my sides , on which more than a hundred of the inhabitants mounted , and walked toward my mouth with baskets full of food , which had been sent by the King's orders when he first received tidings of me .
There were legs and shoulders like mutton but smaller than the wings of a lark .
I ate them two or three at a mouthful , and took three loaves at a time .
They supplied me as fast as they could , with a thousand marks of wonder at my appetite .
I then made a sign that I wanted something to drink .
They guessed that a small quantity would not suffice me , and , being a most ingenious people , they slung up one of their largest hogsheads , then rolled it toward my hand , and beat out the top .
I drank it off at a draught , which I might well do , for it did not hold half a pint .
They brought me a second hogshead , which I drank , and made signs for more ; but they had none to give me .
However , I could not wonder enough at the daring of these tiny mortals , who ventured to mount and walk upon my body , while one of my hands was free , without trembling at the very sight of so huge a creature as I must have seemed to them .
After some time there appeared before me a person of high rank from his Imperial Majesty .
His Excellency , having mounted my right leg , advanced to my face , with about a dozen of his retinue , and spoke about ten minutes , often pointing forward , which , as I afterward found , was toward the capital city , about half a mile distant , whither it was commanded by his Majesty that I should be conveyed .
I made a sign with my hand that was loose , putting it to the other , but over his Excellency's head , for fear of hurting him or his train , to show that I desired my liberty .
He seemed to understand me well enough , for he shook his head , though he made other signs to let me know that I should have meat and drink enough , and very good treatment .
Then I once more thought of attempting to escape ; but when I felt the smart of their arrows on my face and hands , which were all in blisters and observed likewise that the number of my enemies increased , I gave tokens to let them know that they might do with me what they pleased .
Then they daubed my face and hands with a sweet-smelling ointment , which in a few minutes removed all the smarts of the arrows .
The relief from pain and hunger made me drowsy , and presently I fell asleep .
I slept about eight hours , as I was told afterward ; and it was no wonder , for the physicians , by the Emperor's orders , had mingled a sleeping draught in the hogsheads of wine .
It seems that , when I was discovered sleeping on the ground after my landing , the Emperor had early notice of it , and determined that I should be tied in the manner I have related , which was done in the night , while I slept , that plenty of meat and drink should be sent me , and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital city .
Five hundred carpenters and engineers were immediately set to work to prepare the engine .
It was a frame of wood , raised three inches from the ground , about seven feet long and four wide , moving upon twenty-two wheels .
But the difficulty was to place me on it .
Eighty poles were erected for this purpose , and very strong cords fastened to bandages which the workmen had tied round my neck , hands , body , and legs .
Nine hundred of the strongest men were employed to draw up these cords by pulleys fastened on the poles , and in less than three hours I was raised and slung into the engine , and there tied fast .
Fifteen hundred of the Emperor's largest horses , each about four inches and a half high , were then employed to draw me toward the capital .
But while all this was done I still lay in a deep sleep , and I did not wake till four hours after we began our journey .
The Emperor and all his Court came out to meet us when we reached the capital ; but his great officials would not suffer his Majesty to risk his person by mounting on my body .
Where the carriage stopped there stood an ancient temple , supposed to be the largest in the whole kingdom , and here it was determined that I should lodge .
Near the great gate , through which I could easily creep , they fixed ninety-one chains , like those which hang to a lady's watch , which were locked to my left leg with thirty-six padlocks ; and when the workmen found it was impossible for me to break loose , they cut all the strings that bound me .
Then I rose up , feeling as melancholy as ever I did in my life .
But the noise and astonishment of the people on seeing me rise and walk were inexpressible .
The chains that held my left leg were about two yards long , and gave me not only freedom to walk backward and forward in a semicircle , but to creep in and lie at full length inside the temple .
The Emperor , advancing toward me from among his courtiers , all most magnificently clad , surveyed me with great admiration , but kept beyond the length of my chain .
He was taller by about the breadth of my nail than any of his Court , which alone was enough to strike awe into the beholders , and graceful and majestic .
The better to behold him , I lay down on my side , so that my face was level with his , and he stood three yards off .
However , I have had him since many times in my hand , and therefore can not be deceived .
His dress was very simple ; but he wore a light helmet of gold , adorned with jewels and a plume .
He held his sword drawn in his hand , to defend himself if I should break loose ; it was almost three inches long , and the hilt was of gold , enriched with diamonds .
His voice was shrill , but very clear .
His Imperial Majesty spoke often to me , and I answered ; but neither of us could understand a word .
After about two hours the Court retired , and I was left with a strong guard to keep away the crowd , some of whom had had the impudence to shoot their arrows at me as I sat by the door of my house .
But the colonel ordered six of them to be seized and delivered bound into my hands .
I put five of them into my coat pocket ; and as to the sixth , I made a face as if I would eat him alive .
The poor man screamed terribly , and the colonel and his officers were much distressed , especially when they saw me take out my penknife .
But I soon set them at ease , for , cutting the strings he was bound with , I put him gently on the ground , and away he ran .
I treated the rest in the same manner , taking them one by one out of my pocket ; and I saw that both the soldiers and people were delighted at this mark of my kindness .
Toward night I got with some difficulty into my house , where I lay on the ground , as I had to do for a fortnight , till a bed was prepared for me out of six hundred beds of the ordinary measure .
Six hundred servants were appointed me , and three hundred tailors made me a suit of clothes .
Moreover , six of his Majesty's greatest scholars were employed to teach me their language , so that soon I was able to converse after a fashion with the Emperor , who often honored me with his visits .
The first words I learned were to desire that he would please to give me my liberty , which I every day repeated on my knees ; but he answered that this must be a work of time , and that first I must swear a peace with him and his kingdom .
He told me also that by the laws of the nation I must be searched by two of his officers , and that as this could not be done without my help , he trusted them in my hands , and whatever they took from me should be returned when I left the country .
I took up the two officers , and put them into my coat pockets .
These gentlemen , having pen , ink , and paper about them , made an exact list of everything they saw , which I afterward translated into English , and which ran as follows : `` In the right coat pocket of the great Man-Mountain we found only one great piece of coarse cloth , large enough to cover the carpet of your Majesty's chief room of state .
In the left pocket we saw a huge silver chest , with a silver cover , which we could not lift .
We desired that it should be opened , and one of us stepping into it found himself up to the mid-leg in a sort of dust , some of which flying into our faces sent us both into a fit of sneezing .
In his right waistcoat pocket we found a number of white thin substances , folded one over another , about the size of three men , tied with a strong cable , and marked with black figures , which we humbly conceive to be writings .
In the left there was a sort of engine , from the back of which extended twenty long poles , with which , we conjecture , the Man-Mountain combs his head .
In the smaller pocket on the right side were several round flat pieces of white and red metal , of different sizes .
Some of the white , which appeared to be silver , were so large and heavy that my comrade and I could hardly lift them .
From another pocket hung a huge silver chain , with a wonderful kind of engine fastened to it , a globe half silver and half of some transparent metal ; for on the transparent side we saw certain strange figures , and thought we could touch them till we found our fingers stopped by the shining substance .
This engine made an incessant noise , like a water-mill , and we conjecture it is either some unknown animal , or the god he worships , but probably the latter , for he told us that he seldom did anything without consulting it .
`` This is a list of what we found about the body of the Man-Mountain , who treated us with great civility . ''
I had one private pocket which escaped their search , containing a pair of spectacles and a small spy-glass , which , being of no consequence to the Emperor , I did not think myself bound in honor to discover .
My gentleness and good behavior gained so far on the Emperor and his Court , and , indeed , on the people in general , that I began to have hopes of getting my liberty in a short time .
The natives came by degrees to be less fearful of danger from me .
I would sometimes lie down and let five or six of them dance on my hand ; and at last the boys and girls ventured to come and play at hide-and-seek in my hair .
The horses of the army and of the royal stables were no longer shy , having been daily led before me ; and one of the Emperor's huntsmen , on a large courser , took my foot , shoe and all , which was indeed a prodigious leap .
I amused the Emperor one day in a very extraordinary manner .
I took nine sticks , and fixed them firmly in the ground in a square .
Then I took four other sticks , and tied them parallel at each corner , about two feet from the ground .
I fastened my handkerchief to the nine sticks that stood erect , and extended it on all sides till it was as tight as the top of a drum ; and I desired the Emperor to let a troop of his best horse , twenty-four in number , come and exercise upon this plain .
His majesty approved of the proposal , and I took them up one by one , with the proper officers to exercise them .
As soon as they got into order they divided into two parties , discharged blunt arrows , drew their swords , fled and pursued , and , in short , showed the best military discipline I ever beheld .
The parallel sticks secured them and their horses from falling off the stage , and the Emperor was so much delighted that he ordered this entertainment to be repeated several days , and persuaded the Empress herself to let me hold her in her chair within two yards of the stage , whence she could view the whole performance .
Fortunately no accident happened , only once a fiery horse , pawing with his hoof , struck a hole in my handkerchief , and overthrew his rider and himself .
But I immediately relieved them both , and covering the hole with one hand , I set down the troop with the other as I had taken them up .
The horse that fell was strained in the shoulder ; but the rider was not hurt , and I repaired my handkerchief as well as I could .
However , I would not trust to the strength of it any more in such dangerous enterprises .
I had sent so many petitions for my liberty that his Majesty at length mentioned the matter in a full council , where it was opposed by none except Skyresh Bolgolam , admiral of the realm , who was pleased without any provocation to be my mortal enemy .
However , he agreed at length , though he succeeded in himself drawing up the conditions on which I should be set free .
After they were read I was requested to swear to perform them in the method prescribed by their laws , which was to hold my right foot in my left hand , and to place the middle finger of my right hand on the crown of my head , and my thumb on the top of my right ear .
But I have made a translation of the conditions , which I here offer to the public : `` Golbaste Mamarem Evlame Gurdile Shefin Mully Ully Gue , Most Mighty Emperor of Lilliput , delight and terror of the universe , whose dominions extend to the ends of the globe , monarch of all monarchs , taller than the sons of men , whose feet press down to the center , and whose head strikes against the sun , at whose nod the princes of the earth shake their knees , pleasant as the spring , comfortable as the summer , fruitful as autumn , dreadful as winter : His Most Sublime Majesty proposeth to the Man-Mountain , lately arrived at our celestial dominions , the following articles , which by a solemn oath he shall be obliged to perform : `` First .
The Man-Mountain shall not depart from our dominions without our license under the great seal .
`` Second .
He shall not presume to come into our metropolis without our express order , at which time the inhabitants shall have two hours ' warning to keep within doors .
`` Third .
The said Man-Mountain shall confine his walks to our principal high roads , and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or field of corn .
`` Fourth .
As he walks the said roads he shall take the utmost care not to trample upon the bodies of any of our loving subjects , their horses or carriages , nor take any of our subjects into his hands without their own consent .
`` Fifth .
If an express requires extraordinary speed the Man-Mountain shall be obliged to carry in his pocket the messenger and horse a six days ' journey , and return the said messenger , if so required , safe to our imperial presence .
`` Sixth .
He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island of Blefuscu , and do his utmost to destroy their fleet , which is now preparing to invade us .
`` Lastly .
Upon his solemn oath to observe all the above articles , the said Man-Mountain shall have a daily allowance of meat and drink sufficient for the support of 1,724 of our subjects , with free access to our royal person , and other marks of our favor .
Given at our palace at Belfaburac , the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign . ''
I swore to these articles with great cheerfulness , whereupon my chains were immediately unlocked , and I was at full liberty .
One morning , about a fortnight after I had obtained my freedom , Reldresal , the Emperor's secretary for private affairs , came to my house , attended only by one servant .
He ordered his coach to wait at a distance , and desired that I would give him an hour's audience .
I offered to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach my ear ; but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during our conversation .
He began with compliments on my liberty , but he added that , save for the present state of things at Court , perhaps I might not have obtained it so soon .
`` For , '' he said , `` however flourishing we may seem to foreigners , we are in danger of an invasion from the island of Blefuscu , which is the other great empire of the universe , almost as large and as powerful as this of his Majesty .
For as to what we have heard you say , that there are other kingdoms in the world , inhabited by human creatures as large as yourself , our philosophers are very doubtful , and rather conjecture that you dropped from the moon , or one of the stars , because a hundred mortals of your size would soon destroy all the fruit and cattle of his Majesty's dominions .
Besides , our histories of six thousand moons make no mention of any other regions than the two mighty empires of Lilliput and Blefuscu , which , as I was going to tell you , are engaged in a most obstinate war , which began in the following manner : It is allowed on all hands that the primitive way of breaking eggs was upon the larger end ; but his present Majesty's grandfather , while he was a boy , going to eat an egg , and breaking it according to the ancient practice , happened to cut one of his fingers .
Whereupon the Emperor , his father , made a law commanding all his subjects to break the smaller end of their eggs .
The people so highly resented this law that there have been six rebellions raised on that account , wherein one emperor lost his life , and another his crown .
It is calculated that eleven hundred persons have at different times suffered rather than break their eggs at the smaller end .
But these rebels , the Bigendians , have found so much encouragement at the Emperor of Blefuscu's Court , to which they always fled for refuge , that a bloody war , as I said , has been carried on between the two empires for six-and-thirty moons ; and now the Blefuscudians have equipped a large fleet , and are preparing to descend upon us .
Therefore his Imperial Majesty , placing great confidence in your valor and strength , has commanded me to set the case before you . ''
I desired the secretary to present my humble duty to the Emperor , and to let him know that I was ready , at the risk of my life , to defend him against all invaders .
It was not long before I communicated to his Majesty the plan I formed for seizing the enemy's whole fleet .
The Empire of Blefuscu is an island parted from Lilliput only by a channel eight hundred yards wide .
I consulted the most experienced seamen on the depth of the channel , and they told me that in the middle , at high water , it was seventy glumguffs , about six feet of European measure , .
I walked toward the coast , where , lying down behind a hillock , I took out my spy-glass , and viewed the enemy's fleet at anchor -- about fifty men-of-war , and other vessels .
I then came back to my house and gave orders for a great quantity of the strongest cables and bars of iron .
The cable was about as thick as packthread , and the bars of the length and size of a knitting-needle .
I trebled the cable to make it stronger , and for the same reason twisted three of the iron bars together , bending the ends into a hook .
Having thus fixed fifty hooks to as many cables , I went back to the coast , and taking off my coat , shoes , and stockings , walked into the sea in my leather jacket about half an hour before high water .
I waded with what haste I could , swimming in the middle about thirty yards , till I felt ground , and thus arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour .
The enemy was so frightened when they saw me that they leaped out of their ships and swam ashore , where there could not be fewer than thirty thousand .
Then , fastening a hook to the hole at the prow of each ship , I tied all the cords together at the end .
Meanwhile the enemy discharged several thousand arrows , many of which stuck in my hands and face .
My greatest fear was for my eyes , which I should have lost if I had not suddenly thought of the pair of spectacles which had escaped the Emperor's searchers .
These I took out and fastened upon my nose , and thus armed went on with my work in spite of the arrows , many of which struck against the glasses of my spectacles , but without any other effect than slightly disturbing them .
Then , taking the knot in my hand , I began to pull ; but not a ship would stir , for they were too fast held by their anchors .
Thus the boldest part of my enterprise remained .
Letting go the cord , I resolutely cut with my knife the cables that fastened the anchors , receiving more than two hundred shots in my face and hands .
Then I took up again the knotted end of the cables to which my hooks were tied , and with great ease drew fifty of the enemy's largest men-of-war after me .
When the Blefuscudians saw the fleet moving in order , and me pulling at the end , they set up a scream of grief and despair that it is impossible to describe .
When I had got out of danger I stopped awhile to pick out the arrows that stuck in my hands and face , and rubbed on some of the same ointment that was given me at my arrival .
I then took off my spectacles , and after waiting about an hour , till the tide was a little fallen , I waded on to the royal port of Lilliput .
The Emperor and his whole Court stood on the shore awaiting me .
They saw the ships move forward in a large half-moon , but could not discern me , who , in the middle of the channel , was under water up to my neck .
The Emperor concluded that I was drowned , and that the enemy's fleet was approaching in a hostile manner .
But he was soon set at ease , for , the channel growing shallower every step I made , I came in a short time within hearing , and holding up the end of the cable by which the fleet was fastened , I cried in a loud voice : `` Long live the most puissant Emperor of Lilliput ! ''
The Prince received me at my landing with all possible joy , and made me a Nardal on the spot , which is the highest title of honor among them .
His Majesty desired that I would take some opportunity to bring all the rest of his enemy's ships into his ports , and seemed to think of nothing less than conquering the whole Empire of Blefuscu , and becoming the sole monarch of the world .
But I plainly protested that I would never be the means of bringing a free and brave people into slavery ; and though the wisest of the Ministers were of my opinion , my open refusal was so opposed to his Majesty's ambition that he could never forgive me .
And from this time a plot began between himself and those of his Ministers who were my enemies , that nearly ended in my utter destruction .
About three weeks after this exploit there arrived an embassy from Blefuscu , with humble offers of peace , which was soon concluded , on terms very advantageous to our Emperor .
There were six ambassadors , with a train of about five hundred persons , all very magnificent .
Having been privately told that I had befriended them , they made me a visit , and paying me many compliments on my valor and generosity , invited me to their kingdom in the Emperor their master's name .
I asked them to present my most humble respects to the Emperor their master , whose royal person I resolved to attend before I returned to my own country .
Accordingly , the next time I had the honor to see our Emperor I desired his general permission to visit the Blefuscudian monarch .
This he granted me , but in a very cold manner , of which I afterward learned the reason .
When I was just preparing to pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu , a distinguished person at Court , to whom I had once done a great service , came to my house very privately at night , and without sending his name desired admission .
I put his lordship into my coat pocket , and , giving orders to a trusty servant to admit no one , I fastened the door , placed my visitor on the table , and sat down by it .
His lordship's face was full of trouble ; and he asked me to hear him with patience , in a matter that highly concerned my honor and my life .
`` You are aware , '' he said , `` that Skyresh Bolgolam has been your mortal enemy ever since your arrival , and his hatred is increased since your great success against Blefuscu , by which his glory as admiral is obscured .
This lord and others have accused you of treason , and several councils have been called in the most private manner on your account .
Out of gratitude for your favors I procured information of the whole proceedings , venturing my head for your service , and this was the charge against you : `` First , that you , having brought the imperial fleet of Blefuscu into the royal port , were commanded by his Majesty to seize all the other ships , and put to death all the Bigendian exiles , and also all the people of the empire who would not immediately consent to break their eggs at the smaller end .
And that , like a false traitor to his Most Serene Majesty , you excused yourself from the service on pretence of unwillingness to force the consciences and destroy the liberties and lives of an innocent people .
`` Again , when ambassadors arrived from the Court of Blefuscu , like a false traitor , you aided and entertained them , though you knew them to be servants of a prince lately in open war against his Imperial Majesty .
`` Moreover , you are now preparing , contrary to the duty of a faithful subject , to voyage to the Court of Blefuscu .
`` In the debate on this charge , '' my friend continued , `` his Majesty often urged the services you had done him , while the admiral and treasurer insisted that you should be put to a shameful death .
But Reldresal , secretary for private affairs , who has always proved himself your friend suggested that if his Majesty would please to spare your life and only give orders to put out both your eyes , justice might in some measure be satisfied .
At this Bolgolam rose up in fury , wondering how the secretary dared desire to preserve the life of a traitor ; and the treasurer , pointing out the expense of keeping you , also urged your death .
But his Majesty was graciously pleased to say that since the council thought the loss of your eyes too easy a punishment , some other might afterward be inflicted .
And the secretary , humbly desiring to be heard again , said that as to expense your allowance might be gradually lessened , so that , for want of sufficient food you should grow weak and faint , and die in a few months , when his Majesty's subjects might cut your flesh from your bones and bury it , leaving the skeleton for the admiration of posterity .
`` Thus , through the great friendship of the secretary the affair was arranged .
It was commanded that the plan of starving you by degrees should be kept a secret ; but the sentence of putting out your eyes was entered on the books .
In three days your friend the secretary will come to your house and read the accusation before you , and point out the great mercy of his Majesty , that only condemns you to the loss of your eyes -- which , he does not doubt , you will submit to humbly and gratefully .
Twenty of his Majesty's surgeons will attend , to see the operation well performed , by discharging very sharp-pointed arrows into the balls of your eyes as you lie on the ground .
`` I leave you , '' said my friend , `` to consider what measures you will take ; and , to escape suspicion , I must immediately return , as secretly as I came . ''
His lordship did so ; and I remained alone , in great perplexity .
At first I was bent on resistance ; for while I had liberty I could easily with stones pelt the metropolis to pieces ; but I soon rejected that idea with horror , remembering the oath I had made to the Emperor , and the favors I had received from him .
At last , having his Majesty's leave to pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu , I resolved to take this opportunity .
Before the three days had passed I wrote a letter to my friend the secretary telling him of my resolution ; and , without waiting for an answer , went to the coast , and entering the channel , between wading and swimming reached the port of Blefuscu , where the people , who had long expected me , led me to the capital .
His Majesty , with the royal family and great officers of the Court , came out to receive me , and they entertained me in a manner suited to the generosity of so great a prince .
I did not , however , mention my disgrace with the Emperor of Lilliput , since I did not suppose that prince would disclose the secret while I was out of his power .
But in this , it soon appeared , I was deceived .
Three days after my arrival , walking out of curiosity to the northeast coast of the island , I observed at some distance in the sea something that looked like a boat overturned .
I pulled off my shoes and stockings , and wading two or three hundred yards , I plainly saw it to be a real boat , which I supposed might by some tempest have been driven from a ship .
I returned immediately to the city for help , and after a huge amount of labor I managed to get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscu , where a great crowd of people appeared , full of wonder at sight of so prodigious a vessel .
I told the Emperor that my good fortune had thrown this boat in my way to carry me to some place whence I might return to my native country , and begged his orders for materials to fit it up , and leave to depart -- which , after many kindly speeches , he was pleased to grant .
Meanwhile the Emperor of Lilliput , uneasy at my long absence , but never imagining that I had the least notice of his designs , sent a person of rank to inform the Emperor of Blefuscu of my disgrace ; this messenger had orders to represent the great mercy of his master , who was content to punish me with the loss of my eyes , and who expected that his brother of Blefuscu would have me sent back to Lilliput , bound hand and foot , to be punished as a traitor .
The Emperor of Blefuscu answered with many civil excuses .
He said that as for sending me bound , his brother knew it was impossible .
Moreover , though I had taken away his fleet he was grateful to me for many good offices I had done him in making the peace .
But that both their Majesties would soon be made easy ; for I had found a prodigious vessel on the shore , able to carry me on the sea , which he had given orders to fit up ; and he hoped in a few weeks both empires would be free from me .
With this answer the messenger returned to Lilliput ; and I , though the monarch of Blefuscu secretly offered me his gracious protection if I would continue in his service , hastened my departure , resolving never more to put confidence in princes .
In about a month I was ready to take leave .
The Emperor of Blefuscu , with the Empress and the royal family , came out of the palace ; and I lay down on my face to kiss their hands , which they graciously gave me .
His Majesty presented me with fifty purses of sprugs , their greatest gold coin , and his picture at full length , which I put immediately into one of my gloves , to keep it from being hurt .
Many other ceremonies took place at my departure .
I stored the boat with meat and drink , and took six cows and two bulls alive , with as many ewes and rams , intending to carry them into my own country ; and to feed them on board , I had a good bundle of hay and a bag of corn .
I would gladly have taken a dozen of the natives ; but this was a thing the Emperor would by no means permit , and besides a diligent search into my pockets , his Majesty pledged my honor not to carry away any of his subjects , though with their own consent and desire .
Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able , I set sail .
When I had made twenty-four leagues , by my reckoning , from the island of Blefuscu , I saw a sail steering to the northeast .
I hailed her , but could get no answer ; yet I found I gained upon her , for the wind slackened ; and in half an hour she spied me , and discharged a gun .
I came up with her between five and six in the evening , Sept. 26 , 1701 ; but my heart leaped within me to see her English colors .
I put my cows and sheep into my coat pockets , and got on board with all my little cargo .
The captain received me with kindness , and asked me to tell him what place I came from last ; but at my answer he thought I was raving .
However , I took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket , which , after great astonishment , clearly convinced him .
We arrived in England on the 13th of April , 1702 .
I stayed two months with my wife and family ; but my eager desire to see foreign countries would suffer me to remain no longer .
However , while in England I made great profit by showing my cattle to persons of quality and others ; and before I began my second voyage I sold them for 600_l .
I left 1500_l .
with my wife , and fixed her in a good house ; then taking leave of her and my boy and girl , with tears on both sides , I sailed on board the `` Adventure . ''
