Mary Craig and Sara Reid and Josie Pye had all flocked into Ida Mitchell's room at their boarding-house to condole with each other because none of them was able to go home for New Year's .
Mary and Josie had been home for Christmas , so they didn't really feel so badly off .
But Ida and Sara hadn't even that consolation .
Ida was a third-year student at the Clifton Academy ; she had holidays , and nowhere , so she mournfully affirmed , to spend them .
At home three brothers and a sister were down with the measles , and , as Ida had never had them , she could not go there ; and the news had come too late for her to make any other arrangements .
Mary and Josie were clerks in a Clifton bookstore , and Sara was stenographer in a Clifton lawyer's office .
And they were all jolly and thoughtless and very fond of one another .
`` This will be the first New Year's I have ever spent away from home , '' sighed Sara , nibbling chocolate fudge .
`` It does make me so blue to think of it .
And not even a holiday -- I'll have to go to work just the same .
Now Ida here , she doesn't really need sympathy .
She has holidays -- a whole fortnight -- and nothing to do but enjoy them . ''
`` Holidays are dismal things when you've nowhere to holiday , '' said Ida mournfully .
`` The time drags horribly .
But never mind , girls , I've a plummy bit of news for you .
I 'd a letter from Mother today and , bless the dear woman , she is sending me a cake -- a New Year's cake -- a great big , spicy , mellow , delicious fruit cake .
It will be along tomorrow and , girls , we'll celebrate when it comes .
I've asked everybody in the house up to my room for New Year's Eve , and we'll have a royal good time . ''
`` How splendid ! ''
said Mary .
`` There's nothing I like more than a slice of real countrified home-made fruit cake , where they don't scrimp on eggs or butter or raisins .
You'll give me a good big piece , won't you , Ida ? ''
`` As much as you can eat , '' promised Ida .
`` I can warrant Mother's fruit cake .
Yes , we'll have a jamboree .
Miss Monroe has promised to come in too .
She says she has a weakness for fruit cake . ''
`` Oh ! ''
breathed all the girls .
Miss Monroe was their idol , whom they had to be content to worship at a distance as a general thing .
She was a clever journalist , who worked on a paper , and was reputed to be writing a book .
The girls felt they were highly privileged to be boarding in the same house , and counted that day lost on which they did not receive a businesslike nod or an absent-minded smile from Miss Monroe .
If she ever had time to speak to one of them about the weather , that fortunate one put on airs for a week .
And now to think that she had actually promised to drop into Ida's room on New Year's Eve and eat fruit cake !
`` There goes that funny little namesake of yours , Ida , '' said Josie , who was sitting by the window .
`` She seems to be staying in town over the holidays too .
Wonder why .
Perhaps she doesn't belong anywhere .
She really is a most forlorn-appearing little mortal . ''
There were two Ida Mitchells attending the Clifton Academy .
The other Ida was a plain , quiet , pale-faced little girl of fifteen who was in the second year .
Beyond that , none of the third-year Ida Mitchell's set knew anything about her , or tried to find out .
`` She must be very poor , '' said Ida carelessly .
`` She dresses so shabbily , and she always looks so pinched and subdued .
She boards in a little house out on Marlboro Road , and I pity her if she has to spend her holidays there , for a more dismal place I never saw .
I was there once on the trail of a book I had lost .
Going , girls ?
Well , don't forget tomorrow night . ''
Ida spent the next day decorating her room and watching for the arrival of her cake .
It hadn't come by tea-time , and she concluded to go down to the express office and investigate .
It would be dreadful if that cake didn't turn up in time , with all the girls and Miss Monroe coming in .
Ida felt that she would be mortified to death .
Inquiry at the express office discovered two things .
A box had come in for Miss Ida Mitchell , Clifton ; and said box had been delivered to Miss Ida Mitchell , Clifton .
`` One of our clerks said he knew you personally -- boarded next door to you -- and he 'd take it round himself , '' the manager informed her .
`` There must be some mistake , '' said Ida in perplexity .
`` I don't know any of the clerks here .
Oh -- why -- there's another Ida Mitchell in town !
Can it be possible my cake has gone to her ? ''
The manager thought it very possible , and offered to send around and see .
But Ida said it was on her way home and she would call herself .
At the dismal little house on Marlboro Road she was sent up three flights of stairs to the other Ida Mitchell's small hall bedroom .
The other Ida Mitchell opened the door for her .
Behind her , on the table , was the cake -- such a fine , big , brown cake , with raisins sticking out all over it !
`` Why , how do you do , Miss Mitchell ! ''
exclaimed the other Ida with shy pleasure .
`` Come in .
I didn't know you were in town .
It's real good of you to come and see me .
And just see what I've had sent to me !
Isn't it a beauty ?
I was so surprised when it came -- and , oh , so glad !
I was feeling so blue and lonesome -- as if I hadn't a friend in the world .
I -- I -- yes , I was crying when that cake came .
It has just made the world over for me .
Do sit down and I'll cut you a piece .
I 'm sure you 're as fond of fruit cake as I am . ''
Ida sat down in a chair , feeling bewildered and awkward .
This was a nice predicament !
How could she tell that other Ida that the cake didn't belong to her ?
The poor thing was so delighted .
And , oh , what a bare , lonely little room !
The big , luxurious cake seemed to emphasize the bareness and loneliness .
`` Who -- who sent it to you ? ''
she asked lamely .
`` It must have been Mrs. Henderson , because there is nobody else who would , '' answered the other Ida .
`` Two years ago I was going to school in Trenton and I boarded with her .
When I left her to come to Clifton she told me she would send me a cake for Christmas .
Well , I expected that cake last year -- and it didn't come .
I can't tell you how disappointed I was .
You'll think me very childish .
But I was so lonely , with no home to go to like the other girls .
But she sent it this year , you see .
It is so nice to think that somebody has remembered me at New Year's .
It isn't the cake itself -- it's the thought behind it .
It has just made all the difference in the world .
There -- just sample it , Miss Mitchell . ''
The other Ida cut a generous slice from the cake and passed it to her guest .
Her eyes were shining and her cheeks were flushed .
She was really a very sweet-looking little thing -- not a bit like her usual pale , timid self .
Ida ate the cake slowly .
What was she to do ?
She couldn't tell the other Ida the truth about the cake .
But the girls she had asked in to help eat it that very evening !
And Miss Monroe !
Oh , dear , it was too bad .
But it couldn't be helped .
She wouldn't blot out that light on the other Ida's face for anything !
Of course , she would find out the truth in time -- probably after she had written to thank Mrs. Henderson for the cake ; but meanwhile she would have enjoyed the cake , and the supposed kindness back of it would tide her over her New Year loneliness .
`` It's delicious , '' said Ida heartily , swallowing her own disappointment with the cake .
`` I 'm -- I 'm glad I happened to drop in as I was passing . ''
Ida hoped that speech didn't come under the head of a fib .
`` So am I , '' said the other Ida brightly .
`` Oh , I've been so lonesome and downhearted this week .
I 'm so alone , you see -- there isn't anybody to care .
Father died three years ago , and I don't remember my mother at all .
There is nobody but myself , and it is dreadfully lonely at times .
When the Academy is open and I have my lessons to study , I don't mind so much .
But the holidays take all the courage out of me . ''
`` We should have fraternized more this week , '' smiled Ida , regretting that she hadn't thought of it before .
`` I couldn't go home because of the measles , and I've moped a lot .
We might have spent the time together and had a real nice , jolly holiday . ''
The other Ida blushed with delight .
`` I 'd love to be friends with you , '' she said slowly .
`` I've often thought I 'd like to know you .
Isn't it odd that we have the same name ?
It was so nice of you to come and see me .
I -- I 'd love to have you come often . ''
`` I will , '' said Ida heartily .
`` Perhaps you will stay the evening , '' suggested the other Ida .
`` I've asked some of the girls who board here in to have some cake , I 'm so glad to be able to give them something -- they've all been so good to me .
They are all clerks in stores and some of them are so tired and lonely .
It's so nice to have a pleasure to share with them .
Won't you stay ? ''
`` I 'd like to , '' laughed Ida , `` but I have some guests of my own invited in for tonight .
I must hurry home , for they will most surely be waiting for me . ''
She laughed again as she thought what else the guests would be waiting for .
But her face was sober enough as she walked home .
`` But I 'm glad I left the cake with her , '' she said resolutely .
`` Poor little thing !
It means so much to her .
It meant only ' a good feed , ' as Josie says , to me .
I 'm simply going to make it my business next term to be good friends with the other Ida Mitchell .
I 'm afraid we third-year girls are very self-centred and selfish .
And I know what I'll do !
I'll write to Abby Morton in Trenton to send me Mrs. Henderson's address , and I'll write her a letter and ask her not to let Ida know she didn't send the cake . ''
Ida went into a confectionery store and invested in what Josie Pye was wont to call `` ready-to-wear eatables '' -- fancy cakes , fruit , and candies .
When she reached her room she found it full of expectant girls , with Miss Monroe enthroned in the midst of them -- Miss Monroe in a wonderful evening dress of black lace and yellow silk , with roses in her hair and pearls on her neck -- all donned in honour of Ida's little celebration .
I won't say that , just for a moment , Ida didn't regret that she had given up her cake .
`` Good evening , Miss Mitchell , '' cried Mary Craig gaily .
`` Walk right in and make yourself at home in your own room , do !
We all met in the hall , and knocked and knocked .
Finally Miss Monroe came , so we made bold to walk right in .
Where is the only and original fruit cake , Ida ?
My mouth has been watering all day . ''
`` The other Ida Mitchell is probably entertaining her friends at this moment with my fruit cake , '' said Ida , with a little laugh .
Then she told the whole story .
`` I 'm so sorry to disappoint you , '' she concluded , `` but I simply couldn't tell that poor , lonely child that the cake wasn't intended for her .
I've brought all the goodies home with me that I could buy , and we'll have to do the best we can without the fruit cake . ''
Their `` best '' proved to be a very good thing .
They had a jolly New Year's Eve , and Miss Monroe sparkled and entertained most brilliantly .
They kept their celebration up until twelve to welcome the new year in , and then they bade Ida good night .
But Miss Monroe lingered for a moment behind the others to say softly : `` I want to tell you how good and sweet I think it was of you to give up your cake to the other Ida .
That little bit of unselfishness was a good guerdon for your new year . ''
And Ida , radiant-faced at this praise from her idol , answered heartily : `` I 'm afraid I 'm anything but unselfish , Miss Monroe .
But I mean to try to be more this coming year and think a little about the girls outside of my own little set who may be lonely or discouraged .
The other Ida Mitchell isn't going to have to depend on that fruit cake alone for comfort and encouragement for the next twelve months . ''
