`` Poor little creatures ! ''
said Miss Cordelia compassionately .
She meant the factory children .
In her car ride from the school where she taught to the bridge that spanned the river between Pottstown , the sooty little manufacturing village on one side , and Point Pleasant , which was merely a hamlet , on the other , she had seen dozens of them , playing and quarrelling on the streets or peering wistfully out of dingy tenement windows .
`` Tomorrow is Saturday , '' she reflected , `` and They've no better place to play in than the back streets and yards .
It 's a shame .
There 's work for our philanthropists here , but they don't seem to see it .
Well , I 'm so sorry for them it hurts me to look at them , but I can't do anything . ''
Miss Cordelia sighed and then brightened up , because she realized that she was turning her back upon Pottstown for two blissful days and going to Point Pleasant , which had just one straggling , elm-shaded street hedging on old-fashioned gardens and cosy little houses and trailing off into the real country in a half-hour 's walk .
Miss Cordelia lived alone in a tiny house at Point Pleasant .
It was so tiny that you would have wondered how anyone could live in it .
`` But it 's plenty big for a little old maid like me , '' Miss Cordelia would have told you .
`` And it 's my own -- I 'm queen there .
There 's solid comfort in having one spot for your own self .
To be sure , if I had less land and more house it would be better . ''
Miss Cordelia always laughed here .
It was one of her jokes .
There was a four-acre field behind the house .
Both had been left to her by an uncle .
The field was of no use to Miss Cordelia ; she didn't keep a cow and she hadn't time to make a garden .
But she liked her field ; when people asked her why she didn't sell it she said : `` I 'm fond of it .
I like to walk around in it when the grass grows long .
And it may come in handy some time .
Mother used to say if you kept anything seven years it would come to use .
I've had my field a good bit longer than that , but maybe the time will come yet .
Meanwhile I rejoice in the fact that I am a landed proprietor to the extent of four acres . ''
Miss Cordelia had thought of converting her field into a playground for the factory children and asking detachments of them over on Saturday afternoon .
But she knew that her Point Pleasant neighbours would object to this , so that project was dropped .
When Miss Cordelia pushed open her little gate , hung crookedly in a very compact and prim spruce hedge , she stopped in amazement and said , `` Well , for pity 's sake ! ''
Cynthia Ann Flemming , who lived on the other side of the spruce hedge , now came hurrying over .
`` Good evening , Cordelia .
I have a letter that was left with me for you . ''
`` But -- that -- horse , '' said Miss Cordelia , with a long breath between every word .
`` Where did he come from ?
Tied at my front door -- and he 's eaten the tops off every one of my geraniums !
Where 's his owner or rider or something ? ''
The horse in question was a mild-eyed , rather good-looking quadruped , tied by a halter to the elm at Miss Cordelia 's door and contentedly munching a mouthful of geranium stalks .
Cynthia Ann came through the hedge with the letter .
`` Maybe this will explain , '' she said .
`` Same boy brought it as brought the horse -- a little freckly chap mostly all grin and shirtsleeves .
Said he was told to take the letter and horse to Miss Cordelia Herry , Elm Street , Point Pleasant , and he couldn't wait .
So he tied the creature in there and left the letter with me .
He came half an hour ago .
Well , he has played havoc with your geraniums and no mistake . ''
Miss Cordelia opened and read her letter .
When she finished it she looked at the curious Cynthia Ann solemnly .
`` Well , if that isn't John Drew all over !
I suspected he was at the bottom of it as soon as I laid my eyes on that animal .
John Drew is a cousin of mine .
He 's been living out at Poplar Valley and he writes me that he has gone out west , and wants me to take ` old Nap . '
I suppose that is the horse .
He says that Nap is getting old and not much use for work and he couldn't bear the thought of shooting him or selling him to someone who might ill-treat him , so he wants me to take him and be kind to him for old times ' sake .
John and I were just like brother and sister when we were children .
If this isn't like him nothing ever was .
He was always doing odd things and thinking they were all right .
And now he 's off west and here is the horse .
If it were a cat or a dog -- but a horse ! ''
`` Your four-acre field will come in handy now , '' said Cynthia Ann jestingly .
`` So it will . ''
Miss Cordelia spoke absently .
`` The very thing !
Yes , I'll put him in there . ''
`` But you don't really mean that you 're going to keep the horse , are you ? ''
protested Cynthia Ann .
`` Why , he is no good to you -- and think of the expense of feeding him ! ''
`` I'll keep him for a while , '' said Miss Cordelia briskly .
`` As you say , there is the four-acre field .
It will keep him in eating for a while .
I always knew that field had a mission .
Poor John Drew !
I 'd like to oblige him for old times ' sake , as he says , although this is as crazy as anything he ever did .
But I have a plan .
Meanwhile , I can't feed Nap on geraniums . ''
Miss Cordelia always adapted herself quickly and calmly to new circumstances .
`` It is never any use to get in a stew about things , '' she was wont to say .
So now she untied Nap gingerly , with many rueful glances at her geraniums , and led him away to the field behind the house , where she tied him safely to a post with such an abundance of knots that there was small fear of his getting away .
When the mystified Cynthia Ann had returned home Miss Cordelia set about getting her tea and thinking over the plan that had come to her concerning her white elephant .
`` I can keep him for the summer , '' she said .
`` I'll have to dispose of him in the fall for I've no place to keep him in , and anyway I couldn't afford to feed him .
I'll see if I can borrow Mr. Griggs 's express wagon for Saturday afternoons , and if I can those poor factory children in my grade shall have a weekly treat or my name is not Cordelia Herry .
I 'm not so sure but that John Drew has done a good thing after all .
Poor John !
He always did take things so for granted . ''
* * * * * All the point pleasant people soon knew about Miss Cordelia 's questionable windfall , and she was overwhelmed with advice and suggestions .
She listened to all tranquilly and then placidly followed her own way .
Mr. Griggs was very obliging in regard to his old express wagon , and the next Saturday Point Pleasant was treated to a mild sensation -- nothing less than Miss Cordelia rattling through the village , enthroned on the high seat of Mr. Griggs 's yellow express wagon , drawn by old Nap who , after a week of browsing idleness in the four-acre field , was quite frisky and went at a decided amble down Elm Street and across the bridge .
The long wagon had been filled up with board seats , and when Miss Cordelia came back over the bridge the boards were crowded with factory children -- pale-faced little creatures whose eyes were aglow with pleasure at this unexpected outing .
Miss Cordelia drove straight out to the big pine-clad hills of Deepdale , six miles from Pottstown .
Then she tied Nap in a convenient lane and turned the children loose to revel in the woods and fields .
How they did enjoy themselves !
And how Miss Cordelia enjoyed seeing them enjoy themselves !
When dinner time came she gathered them all around her and went to the wagon .
In it she had a basket of bread and butter .
`` I can't afford anything more , '' she told Cynthia Ann , `` but they must have something to stay their little stomachs .
And I can get some water at a farmhouse . ''
Miss Cordelia had had her eye on a certain farmhouse all the morning .
She did not know anything about the people who lived there , but she liked the looks of the place .
It was a big , white , green-shuttered house , throned in wide-spreading orchards , with a green sweep of velvety lawn in front .
To this Miss Cordelia took her way , surrounded by her small passengers , and they all trooped into the great farmhouse yard just as a big man stepped out of a nearby barn .
As he approached , Miss Cordelia thought she had never seen anybody so much like an incarnate smile before .
Smiles of all kinds seemed literally to riot over his ruddy face and in and out of his eyes and around the corners of his mouth .
`` Well , well , well ! ''
he said , when he came near enough to be heard .
`` Is this a runaway school , ma'am ? ''
`` I 'm the runaway schoolma'am , '' responded Miss Cordelia with a twinkle .
`` And these are a lot of factory children I've brought out for a Saturday treat .
I thought I might get some water from your well , and maybe you will lend us a tin dipper or two ? ''
`` Water ?
Tut , tut ! ''
said the big man , with three distinct smiles on his face .
`` Milk 's the thing , ma'am -- milk .
I'll tell my housekeeper to bring some out .
And all of you come over to the lawn and make yourselves at home .
Bless you , ma'am , I 'm fond of children .
My name is Smiles , ma'am -- Abraham Smiles . ''
`` It suits you , '' said Miss Cordelia emphatically , before she thought , and then blushed rosy-red over her bluntness .
Mr. Smiles laughed .
`` Yes , I guess I always have an everlasting grin on .
Had to live up to my name , you see , in spite of my naturally cantankerous disposition ; But come this way , ma'am , I can see the hunger sticking out of those youngsters ' eyes .
we'll have a sort of impromptu picnic here and now , I'll tell my housekeeper to send out some jam too . ''
While the children devoured their lunch Miss Cordelia found herself telling Mr. Smiles all about old Nap and her little project .
`` I 'm going to bring out a load every fine Saturday all summer , '' she said .
`` It 's all I can do .
They enjoy it so , the little creatures .
It 's terrible to think how cramped their lives are .
They just exist in soot .
Some of them here never saw green fields before today . ''
Mr. Smiles listened and beamed and twinkled until Miss Cordelia felt almost as dazzled as if she were looking at the sun .
`` Look here , ma'am , I like this plan of yours and I want to have a hand in helping it along .
Bring your loads of children out here every Saturday , right here to Beechwood Farm , and turn them loose in my beech woods and upland pastures .
I'll put up some swings for them and have some games , and I'll provide the refreshments also .
Trouble , ma'am ?
No , trouble and I ain't on speaking terms .
It 'll be a pleasure , ma'am .
I 'm fond of children even if I am a grumpy cross-grained old bachelor .
If you can give up your own holiday to give them a good time , surely I can do something too . ''
When Miss Cordelia and her brood of tired , happy little lads and lasses ambled back to town in the golden dusk she felt that the expedition had been an emphatic success .
Even old Nap seemed to jog along eye-deep in satisfaction .
Probably he was ruminating on the glorious afternoon he had spent in Mr. Smiles 's clover pasture .
Every fine Saturday that summer Miss Cordelia took some of the factory children to the country .
The Point Pleasant people nicknamed her equipage `` Miss Cordelia 's accommodation , '' and it became a mild standing joke .
As for Mr. Smiles , he proved a valuable assistant .
Like Miss Cordelia , he gave his Saturdays over to the children , and high weekly revel was held at Beechwood Farm .
But when the big bronze and golden leaves began to fall in the beech woods , Miss Cordelia sorrowfully realized that the summer was over and that the weekly outings which she had enjoyed as much as the children must soon be discontinued .
`` I feel so sorry , '' she told Mr. Smiles , `` but it can't be helped .
It will soon be too cold for our jaunts and of course I can't keep Nap through the winter .
I hate to part with him , I've grown so fond of him , but I must . ''
She looked regretfully at Nap , who was nibbling Mr. Smiles 's clover aftermath .
He was sleek and glossy .
It had been the golden summer of Nap 's life .
Mr. Smiles coughed in an embarrassed fashion .
Miss Cordelia looked at him and was amazed to see that not a smile was on or about his face .
He looked absurdly serious .
`` I want to buy Nap , '' he said in a sepulchral tone , `` but that is not the only thing I want .
I want you too , ma'am .
I 'm tired of being a cross old bachelor .
I think I 'd like to be a cross old husband , for a change .
Do you think you could put up with me in that capacity , Miss Cordelia , my dear ? ''
Miss Cordelia gave a half gasp and then she had to laugh .
`` Oh , Mr. Smiles , I'll agree to anything if you'll only smile again .
It seems unnatural to see you look so solemn . ''
The smiles at once broke loose and revelled over her wooer 's face .
`` Then you will come ? ''
he said eagerly .
Half an hour later they had their plans made .
At New Year 's Miss Cordelia was to leave her school and sooty Pottstown and come to be mistress of Beechwood Farm .
`` And look here , '' said Mr. Smiles .
`` Every fine Saturday you shall have a big , roomy sleigh and Nap , and drive into town for some children and bring them out here for their weekly treat as usual .
The house is large enough to hold them , goodness knows , and if it isn't there are the barns for the overflow .
This is going to be our particular pet charity all our lives , ma'am -- I mean Cordelia , my dear . ''
`` Blessings on old Nap , '' said Miss Cordelia with a happy light in her eyes .
`` He shall live in clover for the rest of his days , '' added Mr. Smiles smilingly .
