It was Christmas Eve , but there was no frost , or snow , or sparkle .
It was a green Christmas , and the night was mild and dim , with hazy starlight .
A little wind was laughing freakishly among the firs around Ingleside and rustling among the sere grasses along the garden walks .
It was more like a night in early spring or late fall than in December ; but it was Christmas Eve , and there was a light in every window of Ingleside , the glow breaking out through the whispering darkness like a flame-red blossom swung against the background of the evergreens ; for the children were coming home for the Christmas reunion , as they always came -- Fritz and Margaret and Laddie and Nora , and Robert's two boys in the place of Robert , who had died fourteen years ago -- and the old house must put forth its best of light and good cheer to welcome them .
Doctor Fritz and his brood were the last to arrive , driving up to the hall door amid a chorus of welcoming barks from the old dogs and a hail of merry calls from the group in the open doorway .
`` We 're all here now , '' said the little mother , as she put her arms about the neck of her stalwart firstborn and kissed his bearded face .
There were handshakings and greetings and laughter .
Only Nanny , far back in the shadows of the firelit hall , swallowed a resentful sob , and wiped two bitter tears from her eyes with her little red hand .
`` We 're not all here , '' she murmured under her breath .
`` Miss Avis isn't here .
Oh , how can they be so glad ?
How can they have forgotten ? ''
But nobody heard or heeded Nanny -- she was only the little orphan `` help '' girl at Ingleside .
They were all very good to her , and they were all very fond of her , but at the times of family reunion Nanny was unconsciously counted out .
There was no bond of blood to unite her to them , and she was left on the fringe of things .
Nanny never resented this -- it was all a matter of course to her ; but on this Christmas Eve her heart was broken because she thought that nobody remembered Miss Avis .
After supper they all gathered around the open fireplace of the hall , hung with its berries and evergreens in honour of the morrow .
It was their unwritten law to form a fireside circle on Christmas Eve and tell each other what the year had brought them of good and ill , sorrow and joy .
The circle was smaller by one than it had been the year before , but none spoke of that .
There was a smile on every face and happiness in every voice .
The father and mother sat in the centre , grey-haired and placid , their fine old faces written over with the history of gracious lives .
Beside the mother , Doctor Fritz sat like a boy , on the floor , with his massive head , grey as his father's , on her lap , and one of his smooth , muscular hands , that were as tender as a woman's at the operating table , clasped in hers .
Next to him sat sweet Nora , the twenty-year-old `` baby , '' who taught in a city school ; the rosy firelight gleamed lovingly over her girlish beauty of burnished brown hair , dreamy blue eyes , and soft , virginal curves of cheek and throat .
Doctor Fritz's spare arm was about her , but Nora's own hands were clasped over her knee , and on one of them sparkled a diamond that had not been there at the last Christmas reunion .
Laddie , who figured as Archibald only in the family Bible , sat close to the inglenook -- a handsome young fellow with a daring brow and rollicking eyes .
On the other side sat Margaret , hand in hand with her father , a woman whose gracious sweetness of nature enveloped her as a garment ; and Robert's two laughing boys filled up the circle , looking so much alike that it was hard to say which was Cecil and which was Sid .
Margaret's husband and Fritz's wife were playing games with the children in the parlour , whence shrieks of merriment drifted out into the hall .
Nanny might have been with them had she chosen , but she preferred to sit alone in the darkest corner of the hall and gaze with jealous , unhappy eyes at the mirthful group about the fire , listening to their story and jest and laughter with unavailing protest in her heart .
Oh , how could they have forgotten so soon ?
It was not yet a full year since Miss Avis had gone .
Last Christmas Eve she had sat there , a sweet and saintly presence , in the inglenook , more , so it had almost seemed , the centre of the home circle than the father and mother ; and now the December stars were shining over her grave , and not one of that heedless group remembered her ; not once was her name spoken ; even her old dog had forgotten her -- he sat with his nose in Margaret's lap , blinking with drowsy , aged contentment at the fire .
`` Oh , I can't bear it ! ''
whispered Nanny , under cover of the hearty laughter which greeted a story Doctor Fritz had been telling .
She slipped out into the kitchen , put on her hood and cloak , and took from a box under the table a little wreath of holly .
She had made it out of the bits left over from the decorations .
Miss Avis had loved holly ; Miss Avis had loved every green , growing thing .
As Nanny opened the kitchen door something cold touched her hand , and there stood the old dog , wagging his tail and looking up at her with wistful eyes , mutely pleading to be taken , too .
`` So you do remember her , Gyppy , '' said Nanny , patting his head .
`` Come along then .
We'll go together . ''
They slipped out into the night .
It was quite dark , but it was not far to the graveyard -- just out through the evergreens and along a field by-path and across the road .
The old church was there , with its square tower , and the white stones gleaming all around it .
Nanny went straight to a shadowy corner and knelt on the sere grasses while she placed her holly wreath on Miss Avis's grave .
The tears in her eyes brimmed over .
`` Oh , Miss Avis !
Miss Avis ! ''
she sobbed .
`` I miss you so -- I miss you so !
It can't ever seem like Christmas to me without you .
You were always so sweet and kind to me .
There ain't a day passes but I think of you and all the things you used to say to me , and I try to be good like you 'd want me to be .
But I hate them for forgetting you -- yes , I do !
I'll never forget you , darling Miss Avis !
I 'd rather be here alone with you in the dark than back there with them . ''
Nanny sat down by the grave .
The old dog lay down by her side with his forepaws on the turf and his eyes fixed on the tall white marble shaft .
It was too dark for Nanny to read the inscription but she knew every word of it : `` In loving remembrance of Avis Maywood , died January 20 , 1902 , aged 45 . ''
And underneath the lines of her own choosing : `` Say not good night , but in some brighter clime Bid me good morning . ''
But they had forgotten her -- oh , they had forgotten her already !
When half an hour had passed , Nanny was startled by approaching footsteps .
Not wishing to be seen , she crept softly behind the headstones into the shadow of the willow on the farther side , and the old dog followed .
Doctor Fritz , coming to the grave , thought himself alone with the dead .
He knelt down by the headstone and pressed his face against it .
`` Avis , '' he said gently , `` dear Avis , I have come to visit your grave tonight because you seem nearer to me here than elsewhere .
And I want to talk to you , Avis , as I have always talked to you every Christmastide since we were children together .
I have missed you so tonight , dear friend and sympathizer -- no words can tell how I have missed you -- your welcoming handclasp and your sweet face in the firelight shadows .
I could not bear to speak your name , the aching sense of loss was so bitter .
Amid all the Christmas mirth and good fellowship I felt the sorrow of your vacant chair .
Avis , I wanted to tell you what the year had brought to me .
My theory has been proved ; it has made me a famous man .
Last Christmas , Avis , I told you of it , and you listened and understood and believed in it .
Dear Avis , once again I thank you for all you have been to me -- all you are yet .
I have brought you your roses ; they are as white and pure and fragrant as your life . ''
Other footsteps came so quickly on Doctor Fritz ' retreating ones that Nanny could not rise .
It was Laddie this time -- gay , careless , thoughtless Laddie .
`` Roses ?
So Fritz has been here !
I have brought you lilies , Avis .
Oh , Avis , I miss you so !
You were so jolly and good -- you understood a fellow so well .
I had to come here tonight to tell you how much I miss you .
It doesn't seem half home without you .
Avis , I 'm trying to be a better chap -- more the sort of man you 'd have me be .
I've given the old set the go-by -- I 'm trying to live up to your standard .
It would be easier if you were here to help me .
When I was a kid it was always easier to be good for awhile after I 'd talked things over with you .
I've got the best mother a fellow ever had , but you and I were such chums , weren't we , Avis ?
I thought I 'd just break down in there tonight and put a damper on everything by crying like a baby .
If anybody had spoken about you , I should have .
Hello ! ''
Laddie wheeled around with a start , but it was only Robert's two boys , who came shyly up to the grave , half hanging back to find anyone else there .
`` Hello , boys , '' said Laddie huskily .
`` So you've come to see her grave too ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Cecil solemnly .
`` We -- we just had to .
We couldn't go to bed without coming .
Oh , isn't it lonesome without Cousin Avis ? ''
`` She was always so good to us , '' said Sid .
`` She used to talk to us so nice , '' said Cecil chokily .
`` But she liked fun , too . ''
`` Boys , '' said Laddie gravely , `` never forget what Cousin Avis used to say to you .
Never forget that you have got to grow up into men she 'd be proud of . ''
They went away then , the boys and their boyish uncle ; and when they had gone Nora came , stealing timidly through the shadows , starting at the rustle of the wind in the trees .
`` Oh , Avis , '' she whispered .
`` I want to see you so much !
I want to tell you all about it -- about him .
You would understand so well .
He is the best and dearest lover ever a girl had .
You would think so too .
Oh , Avis , I miss you so much !
There's a little shadow even on my happiness because I can't talk it over with you in the old way .
Oh , Avis , it was dreadful to sit around the fire tonight and not see you .
Perhaps you were there in spirit .
I love to think you were , but I wanted to see you .
You were always there to come home to before , Avis , dear . ''
Sobbing , she went away ; and then came Margaret , the grave , strong Margaret .
`` Dear cousin , dear to me as a sister , it seemed to me that I must come to you here tonight .
I can not tell you how much I miss your wise , clear-sighted advice and judgment , your wholesome companionship .
A little son was born to me this past year , Avis .
How glad you would have been , for you knew , as none other did , the bitterness of my childless heart .
How we would have delighted to talk over my baby together , and teach him wisely between us !
Avis , Avis , your going made a blank that can never be filled for me ! ''
Margaret was still standing there when the old people came .
`` Father !
Mother !
Isn't it too late and chilly for you to be here ? ''
`` No , Margaret , no , '' said the mother .
`` I couldn't go to my bed without coming to see Avis's grave .
I brought her up from a baby -- her dying mother gave her to me .
She was as much my own child as any of you .
And oh !
I miss her so .
You only miss her when you come home , but I miss her all the time -- every day ! ''
`` We all miss her , Mother , '' said the old father , tremulously .
`` She was a good girl -- Avis was a good girl .
Good night , Avis ! '' ''
` Say not good night , but in some brighter clime bid her good morning , ' '' quoted Margaret softly .
`` That was her own wish , you know .
Let us go back now .
It is getting late . ''
When they had gone Nanny crept out from the shadows .
It had not occurred to her that perhaps she should not have listened -- she had been too shy to make her presence known to those who came to Avis's grave .
But her heart was full of joy .
`` Oh , Miss Avis , I 'm so glad , I 'm so glad !
They haven't forgotten you after all , Miss Avis , dear , not one of them .
I 'm sorry I was so cross at them ; and I 'm so glad they haven't forgotten you .
I love them for it . ''
Then the old dog and Nanny went home together .
