Little Tessa sat alone by the fire , waiting for her father to come home from work .
The children were fast asleep , all four in the big bed behind the curtain ; the wind blew hard outside , and the snow beat on the window-panes ; the room was large , and the fire so small and feeble that it didn't half warm the little bare toes peeping out of the old shoes on the hearth .
Tessa's father was an Italian plaster-worker , very poor , but kind and honest .
The mother had died not long ago , and left twelve-year old Tessa to take care of the little children .
She tried to be very wise and motherly , and worked for them like any little woman ; but it was so hard to keep the small bodies warm and fed , and the small souls good and happy , that poor Tessa was often at her wits ' end .
She always waited for her father , no matter how tired she was , so that he might find his supper warm , a bit of fire , and a loving little face to welcome him .
Tessa thought over her troubles at these quiet times , and made her plans ; for her father left things to her a good deal , and she had no friends but Tommo , the harp-boy upstairs , and the lively cricket who lived in the chimney .
To-night her face was very sober , and her pretty brown eyes very thoughtful as she stared at the fire and knit her brows , as if perplexed .
She was not thinking of her old shoes , nor the empty closet , nor the boys ' ragged clothes just then .
No ; she had a fine plan in her good little head , and was trying to discover how she could carry it out .
You see , Christmas was coming in a week ; and she had set her heart on putting something in the children's stockings , as the mother used to do , for while she lived things were comfortable .
Now Tessa had not a penny in the world , and didn't know how to get one , for all the father's earnings had to go for food , fire , and rent .
` If there were only fairies , ah !
how heavenly that would be ; for then I should tell them all I wish , and , pop !
behold the fine things in my lap ! '
said Tessa to herself . '
I must earn the money ; there is no one to give it to me , and I can not beg .
But what can I do , so small and stupid and shy as I am ?
I must find some way to give the little ones a nice Christmas .
I must !
I must ! '
and Tessa pulled her long hair , as if that would help her think .
But it didn't , and her heart got heavier and heavier ; for it did seem hard that in a great city full of fine things , there should be none for poor Nono , Sep , and little Speranza .
Just as Tessa's tears began to tumble off her eyelashes on to her brown cheeks , the cricket began to chirp .
Of course , he didn't say a word ; but it really did seem as if he had answered her question almost as well as a fairy ; for , before he had piped a dozen shrill notes , an idea popped into Tessa's head -- such a truly splendid idea that she clapped her hands and burst out laughing .
` I'll do it !
I'll do it !
if father will let me , ' she said to herself , smiling and nodding at the fire .
` Tommo will like to have me go with him and sing , while he plays his harp in the streets .
I know many songs , and may get money if I am not frightened ; for people throw pennies to other little girls who only play the tambourine .
Yes , I will try ; and then , if I do well , the little ones shall have a Merry Christmas . '
So full of her plan was Tessa that she ran upstairs at once , and asked Tommo if he would take her with him on the morrow .
Her friend was delighted , for he thought Tessa's songs very sweet , and was sure she would get money if she tried .
` But see , then , it is cold in the streets ; the wind bites , and the snow freezes one's fingers .
The day is very long , people are cross , and at night one is ready to die with weariness .
Thou art so small , Tessa , I am afraid it will go badly with thee , ' said Tommo , who was a merry , black-eyed boy of fourteen , with the kindest heart in the world under his old jacket . '
I do not mind cold and wet , and cross people , if I can get the pennies , ' answered Tessa , feeling very brave with such a friend to help her .
She thanked Tommo , and ran away to get ready , for she felt sure her father would not refuse her anything .
She sewed up the holes in her shoes as well as she could , for she had much of that sort of cobbling to do ; she mended her only gown , and laid ready the old hood and shawl which had been her mother's .
Then she washed out little Ranza's frock and put it to dry , because she would not be able to do it the next day .
She set the table and got things ready for breakfast , for Tommo went out early , and must not be kept waiting for her .
She longed to make the beds and dress the children over night , she was in such a hurry to have all in order ; but , as that could not be , she sat down again , and tried over all the songs she knew .
Six pretty ones were chosen ; and she sang away with all her heart in a fresh little voice so sweetly that the children smiled in their sleep , and her father's tired face brightened as he entered , for Tessa was his cheery cricket on the hearth .
When she had told her plan , Peter Benari shook his head , and thought it would never do ; but Tessa begged so hard , he consented at last that she should try it for one week , and sent her to bed the happiest little girl in New York .
Next morning the sun shone , but the cold wind blew , and the snow lay thick in the streets .
As soon as her father was gone , Tessa flew about and put everything in nice order , telling the children she was going out for the day , and they were to mind Tommo's mother , who would see about the fire and the dinner ; for the good woman loved Tessa , and entered into her little plans with all her heart .
Nono and Giuseppe , or Sep , as they called him , wondered what she was going away for , and little Ranza cried at being left ; but Tessa told them they would know all about it in a week , and have a fine time if they were good ; so they kissed her all round and let her go .
Poor Tessa's heart beat fast as she trudged away with Tommo , who slung his harp over his shoulder , and gave her his hand .
It was rather a dirty hand , but so kind that Tessa clung to it , and kept looking up at the friendly brown face for encouragement .
` We go first to the café , where many French and Italians eat the breakfast .
They like my music , and often give me sips of hot coffee , which I like much .
You too shall have the sips , and perhaps the pennies , for these people are greatly kind , ' said Tommo , leading her into a large smoky place where many people sat at little tables , eating and drinking .
` See , now , have no fear ; give them `` Bella Monica ; '' that is merry and will make the laugh , ' whispered Tommo , tuning his harp .
For a moment Tessa felt so frightened that she wanted to run away ; but she remembered the empty stockings at home , and the fine plan , and she resolved not to give it up .
One fat old Frenchman nodded to her , and it seemed to help her very much ; for she began to sing before she thought , and that was the hardest part of it .
Her voice trembled , and her cheeks grew redder and redder as she went on ; but she kept her eyes fixed on her old shoes , and so got through without breaking down , which was very nice .
The people laughed , for the song was merry ; and the fat man smiled and nodded again .
This gave her courage to try another , and she sung better and better each time ; for Tommo played his best , and kept whispering to her , ` Yes ; we go well ; this is fine .
They will give the money and the blessed coffee . '
So they did ; for , when the little concert was over , several men put pennies in the cap Tessa offered , and the fat man took her on his knee , and ordered a mug of coffee , and some bread and butter for them both .
This quite won her heart ; and when they left the café , she kissed her hand to the old Frenchman , and said to her friend , ` How kind they are !
I like this very much ; and now it is not hard . '
But Tommo shook his curly head , and answered , soberly , ` Yes , I took you there first , for they love music , and are of our country ; but up among the great houses we shall not always do well .
The people there are busy or hard or idle , and care nothing for harps and songs .
Do not skip and laugh too soon ; for the day is long , and we have but twelve pennies yet . '
Tessa walked more quietly , and rubbed her cold hands , feeling that the world was a very big place , and wondering how the children got on at home without the little mother .
Till noon they did not earn much , for every one seemed in a hurry , and the noise of many sleigh-bells drowned the music .
Slowly they made their way up to the great squares where the big houses were , with fine ladies and pretty children at the windows .
Here Tessa sung all her best songs , and Tommo played as fast as his fingers could fly ; but it was too cold to have the windows open , so the pretty children could not listen long , and the ladies tossed out a little money , and soon went back to their own affairs .
All the afternoon the two friends wandered about , singing and playing , and gathering up their small harvest .
At dusk they went home , Tessa so hoarse she could hardly speak , and so tired she fell asleep over her supper .
But she had made half a dollar , for Tommo divided the money fairly , and she felt rich with her share .
The other days were very much like this ; sometimes they made more , sometimes less , but Tommo always ` went halves ; ' and Tessa kept on , in spite of cold and weariness , for her plans grew as her earnings increased , and now she hoped to get useful things , instead of candy and toys alone .
On the day before Christmas she made herself as tidy as she could , for she hoped to earn a good deal .
She tied a bright scarlet handkerchief over the old hood , and the brilliant color set off her brown cheeks and bright eyes , as well as the pretty black braids of her hair .
Tommo's mother lent her a pair of boots so big that they turned up at the toes , but there were no holes in them , and Tessa felt quite elegant in whole boots .
Her hands were covered with chilblains , for she had no mittens ; but she put them under her shawl , and scuffled merrily away in her big boots , feeling so glad that the week was over , and nearly three dollars safe in her pocket .
How gay the streets were that day !
how brisk every one was , and how bright the faces looked , as people trotted about with big baskets , holly-wreaths , and young evergreens going to blossom into splendid Christmas trees !
` If I could have a tree for the children , I 'd never want anything again .
But I can't ; so I'll fill the socks all full , and be happy , ' said Tessa , as she looked wistfully into the gay stores , and saw the heavy baskets go by .
` Who knows what may happen if we do well ? '
returned Tommo , nodding wisely , for he had a plan as well as Tessa , and kept chuckling over it as he trudged through the mud .
They did not do well somehow , for every one seemed so full of their own affairs they could not stop to listen , even to ` Bella Monica , ' but bustled away to spend their money in turkeys , toys , and trees .
In the afternoon it began to rain , and poor Tessa's heart to fail her ; for the big boots tired her feet , the cold wind made her hands ache , and the rain spoilt the fine red handkerchief .
Even Tommo looked sober , and didn't whistle as he walked , for he also was disappointed , and his plan looked rather doubtful , the pennies came in so slowly .
` We'll try one more street , and then go home , thou art so tired , little one .
Come ; let me wipe thy face , and give me thy hand here in my jacket pocket ; there it will be as warm as any kitten ; ' and kind Tommo brushed away the drops which were not all rain from Tessa's cheeks , tucked the poor hand into his ragged pocket , and led her carefully along the slippery streets , for the boots nearly tripped her up .
At the first house , a cross old gentleman flapped his newspaper at them ; at the second , a young gentleman and lady were so busy talking that they never turned their heads , and at the third , a servant came out and told them to go away , because some one was sick .
At the fourth , some people let them sing all their songs and gave nothing .
The next three houses were empty ; and the last of all showed not a single face as they looked up anxiously .
It was so cold , so dark and discouraging , that Tessa couldn't help one sob ; and , as he glanced down at the little red nose and wet figure beside him , Tommo gave his harp an angry thump , and said something very fierce in Italian .
They were just going to turn away ; but they didn't , for that angry thump happened to be the best thing they could have done .
All of a sudden a little head appeared at the window , as if the sound had brought it ; then another and another , till there were five , of all heights and colors , and five eager faces peeped out , smiling and nodding to the two below .
` Sing , Tessa ; sing !
Quick !
quick ! '
cried Tommo , twanging away with all his might , and showing his white teeth , as he smiled back at the little gentle-folk .
Bless us !
How Tessa did tune up at that !
She chirped away like a real bird , forgetting all about the tears on her cheeks , the ache in her hands , and the heaviness at her heart .
The children laughed , and clapped their hands , and cried ` More !
more !
Sing another , little girl !
Please do ! '
And away they went again , piping and playing , till Tessa's breath was gone , and Tommo's stout fingers tingled well .
` Mamma says , come to the door ; it's too muddy to throw the money into the street ! '
cried out a kindly child's voice as Tessa held up the old cap , with beseeching eyes .
Up the wide stone steps went the street musicians , and the whole flock came running down to give a handful of silver , and ask all sorts of questions .
Tessa felt so grateful that , without waiting for Tommo , she sang her sweetest little song all alone .
It was about a lost lamb , and her heart was in the song ; therefore she sang it well , so well that a pretty young lady came down to listen , and stood watching the bright-eyed girl , who looked about her as she sang , evidently enjoying the light and warmth of the fine hall , and the sight of the lovely children with their gay dresses , shining hair , and dainty little shoes .
` You have a charming voice , child .
Who taught you to sing ? '
asked the young lady kindly .
` My mother .
She is dead now ; but I do not forget , ' answered Tessa , in her pretty broken English . '
I wish she could sing at our tree , since Bella is ill , ' cried one of the children peeping through the banisters .
` She is not fair enough for the angel , and too large to go up in the tree .
But she sings sweetly , and looks as if she would like to see a tree , ' said the young lady .
` Oh , so much ! '
exclaimed Tessa ; adding eagerly , ` my sister Ranza is small and pretty as a baby-angel .
She could sit up in the fine tree , and I could sing for her from under the table . '
` Sit down and warm yourself , and tell me about Ranza , ' said the kind elder sister , who liked the confiding little girl , in spite of her shabby clothes .
So Tessa sat down and dried the big boots over the furnace , and told her story , while Tommo stood modestly in the background , and the children listened with faces full of interest . '
O Rose !
let us see the little girl ; and if she will do , let us have her , and Tessa can learn our song , and it will be splendid ! '
cried the biggest boy , who sat astride of a chair , and stared at the harp with round eyes .
` I'll ask mamma , ' said Rose ; and away she went into the dining-room close by .
As the door opened , Tessa saw what looked to her like a fairy feast , -- all silver mugs and flowery plates and oranges and nuts and rosy wine in tall glass pitchers , and smoking dishes that smelt so deliciously she could not restrain a little sniff of satisfaction .
` Are you hungry ? '
asked the boy , in a grand tone .
` Yes , sir , ' meekly answered Tessa . '
I say , mamma ; she wants something to eat .
Can I give her an orange ? '
called the boy , prancing away into the splendid room , quite like a fairy prince , Tessa thought .
A plump motherly lady came out and looked at Tessa , asked a few questions , and then told her to come to-morrow with Ranza , and they would see what could be done .
Tessa clapped her hands for joy , -- she didn't mind the chilblains now , -- and Tommo played a lively march , he was so pleased .
` Will you come , too , and bring your harp ?
You shall be paid , and shall have something from the tree , likewise , ' said the motherly lady , who liked what Tessa gratefully told about his kindness to her .
` Ah , yes ; I shall come with much gladness , and play as never in my life before , ' cried Tommo , with a flourish of the old cap that made the children laugh .
` Give these to your brothers , ' said the fairy prince , stuffing nuts and oranges into Tessa's hands .
` And these to the little girl , ' added one of the young princesses , flying out of the dining-room with cakes and rosy apples for Ranza .
Tessa didn't know what to say ; but her eyes were full , and she just took the mother's white hand in both her little grimy ones , and kissed it many times in her pretty Italian fashion .
The lady understood her , and stroked her cheek softly , saying to her elder daughter , ` We must take care of this good little creature .
Freddy , bring me your mittens ; these poor hands must be covered .
Alice , get your play-hood ; this handkerchief is all wet ; and , Maud , bring the old chinchilla tippet . '
The children ran , and in a minute there were lovely blue mittens on the red hands , a warm hood over the black braids , and a soft ` pussy ' round the sore throat .
` Ah !
so kind , so very kind !
I have no way to say `` thank you ; '' but Ranza shall be for you a heavenly angel , and I will sing my heart out for your tree ! '
cried Tessa , folding the mittens as if she would say a prayer of thankfulness if she knew how .
Then they went away , and the pretty children called after them , ` Come again , Tessa !
come again , Tommo ! '
Now the rain didn't seem dismal , the wind cold , nor the way long , as they bought their gifts and hurried home , for kind words and the sweet magic of charity had changed all the world to them .
I think the good spirits who fly about on Christmas Eve , to help the loving fillers of little stockings , smiled very kindly on Tessa as she brooded joyfully over the small store of presents that seemed so magnificent to her .
All the goodies were divided evenly into three parts and stowed away in father's three big socks , which hung against the curtain .
With her three dollars , she had got a pair of shoes for Nono , a knit cap for Sep , and a pair of white stockings for Ranza ; to her she also gave the new hood ; to Nono the mittens ; and to Sep the tippet .
` Now the dear boys can go out , and my Ranza will be ready for the lady to see , in her nice new things , ' said Tessa , quite sighing with pleasure to see how well the gifts looked pinned up beside the bulging socks , which wouldn't hold them all .
The little mother kept nothing for herself but the pleasure of giving everything away ; yet , I think , she was both richer and happier than if she had kept them all .
Her father laughed as he had not done since the mother died , when he saw how comically the old curtain had broken out into boots and hoods , stockings and tippets . '
I wish I had a gold gown and a silver hat for thee , my Tessa , thou art so good .
May the saints bless and keep thee always ! '
said Peter Benari tenderly , as he held his little daughter close , and gave her the good-night kiss .
Tessa felt very rich as she crept under the faded counterpane , feeling as if she had received a lovely gift , and fell happily asleep with chubby Ranza in her arms , and the two rough black heads peeping out at the foot of the bed .
She dreamed wonderful dreams that night , and woke in the morning to find real wonders before her eyes .
She got up early , to see if the socks were all right , and there she found the most astonishing sight .
Four socks , instead of three ; and by the fourth , pinned out quite elegantly was a little dress , evidently meant for her -- a warm , woollen dress , all made , and actually with bright buttons on it .
It nearly took her breath away ; so did the new boots on the floor , and the funny long stocking like a grey sausage , with a wooden doll staring out at the top , as if she said , politely , ' A Merry Christmas , ma'am ! '
Tessa screamed and danced in her delight , and up tumbled all the children to scream and dance with her , making a regular carnival on a small scale .
Everybody hugged and kissed everybody else , offered sucks of orange , bites of cake , and exchanges of candy ; every one tried on the new things , and pranced about in them like a flock of peacocks .
Ranza skipped to and fro airily , dressed in her white socks and the red hood ; the boys promenaded in their little shirts , one with his creaking new shoes and mittens , the other in his gay cap and fine tippet ; and Tessa put her dress straight on , feeling that her father's ` gold gown ' was not all a joke .
In her long stocking she found all sorts of treasures ; for Tommo had stuffed it full of queer things , and his mother had made gingerbread into every imaginable shape , from fat pigs to full omnibuses .
Dear me !
What happy little souls they were that morning ; and when they were quiet again , how like a fairy tale did Tessa's story sound to them .
Ranza was quite ready to be an angel ; and the boys promised to be marvellously good , if they were only allowed to see the tree at the ` palace , ' as they called the great house .
Little Ranza was accepted with delight by the kind lady and her children , and Tessa learned the song quite easily .
The boys were asked ; and , after a happy day , the young Italians all returned , to play their parts at the fine Christmas party .
Mamma and Miss Rose drilled them all ; and when the folding-doors flew open , one rapturous ` Oh ! '
arose from the crowd of children gathered to the festival .
I assure you , it was splendid ; the great tree glittering with lights and gifts ; and , on her invisible perch , up among the green boughs , sat the little golden-haired angel , all in white , with downy wings , a shining crown on her head , and the most serene satisfaction in her blue eyes , as she stretched her chubby arms to those below , and smiled her baby smile at them .
Before any one could speak , a voice , as fresh and sweet as a lark's , sang the Christmas Carol so blithely that every one stood still to hear , and then clapped till the little angel shook on her perch , and cried out , ` Be 'till , or me'll fall ! '
How they laughed at that ; and what fun they had talking to Ranza , while Miss Rose stripped the tree , for the angel could not resist temptation , and amused herself by eating all the bonbons she could reach , till she was taken down , to dance about like a fairy in a white frock and red shoes .
Tessa and her friends had many presents ; the boys were perfect lambs , Tommo played for the little folks to dance , and every one said something friendly to the strangers , so that they did not feel shy , in spite of shabby clothes .
It was a happy night : and all their lives they remembered it as something too beautiful and bright to be quite true .
Before they went home , the kind mamma told Tessa she should be her friend , and gave her a motherly kiss , which warmed the child's heart and seemed to set a seal upon that promise .
It was faithfully kept , for the rich lady had been touched by Tessa's patient struggles and sacrifices ; and for many years , thanks to her benevolence , there was no end to Tessa's Surprises .
