Jane Lavinia put her precious portfolio down on the table in her room , carefully , as if its contents were fine gold , and proceeded to unpin and take off her second-best hat .
When she had gone over to the Whittaker place that afternoon , she had wanted to wear her best hat , but Aunt Rebecca had vetoed that uncompromisingly .
`` Next thing you'll be wanting to wear your best muslin to go for the cows , '' said Aunt Rebecca sarcastically .
`` You go right back upstairs and take off that chiffon hat .
If I was fool enough to be coaxed into buying it for you , I ain't going to have you spoil it by traipsing hither and yon with it in the dust and sun .
Your last summer's sailor is plenty good enough to go to the Whittakers ' in , Jane Lavinia . ''
`` But Mr. Stephens and his wife are from New York , '' pleaded Jane Lavinia , `` and she's so stylish . ''
`` Well , it's likely they 're used to seeing chiffon hats , '' Aunt Rebecca responded , more sarcastically than ever .
`` It isn't probable that yours would make much of a sensation .
Mr. Stephens didn't send for you to show him your chiffon hat , did he ?
If he did , I don't see what you 're lugging that big portfolio along with you for .
Go and put on your sailor hat , Jane Lavinia . ''
Jane Lavinia obeyed .
She always obeyed Aunt Rebecca .
But she took off the chiffon hat and pinned on the sailor with bitterness of heart .
She had always hated that sailor .
Anything ugly hurt Jane Lavinia with an intensity that Aunt Rebecca could never understand ; and the sailor hat was ugly , with its stiff little black bows and impossible blue roses .
It jarred on Jane Lavinia's artistic instincts .
Besides , it was very unbecoming .
I look horrid in it , Jane Lavinia had thought sorrowfully ; and then she had gone out and down the velvet-green springtime valley and over the sunny birch hill beyond with a lagging step and a rebellious heart .
But Jane Lavinia came home walking as if on the clear air of the crystal afternoon , her small , delicate face aglow and every fibre of her body and spirit thrilling with excitement and delight .
She forgot to fling the sailor hat into its box with her usual energy of dislike .
Just then Jane Lavinia had a soul above hats .
She looked at herself in the glass and nodded with friendliness .
`` You'll do something yet , '' she said .
`` Mr. Stephens said you would .
Oh , I like you , Jane Lavinia , you dear thing !
Sometimes I haven't liked you because you 're nothing to look at , and I didn't suppose you could really do anything worthwhile .
But I do like you now after what Mr. Stephens said about your drawings . ''
Jane Lavinia smiled radiantly into the little cracked glass .
Just then she was pretty , with the glow on her cheeks and the sparkle in her eyes .
Her uncertainly tinted hair and an all-too-certain little tilt of her nose no longer troubled her .
Such things did not matter ; nobody would mind them in a successful artist .
And Mr. Stephens had said that she had talent enough to win success .
Jane Lavinia sat down by her window , which looked west into a grove of firs .
They grew thickly , close up to the house , and she could touch their wide , fan-like branches with her hand .
Jane Lavinia loved those fir trees , with their whispers and sighs and beckonings , and she also loved her little shadowy , low-ceilinged room , despite its plainness , because it was gorgeous for her with visions and peopled with rainbow fancies .
The stained walls were covered with Jane Lavinia's pictures -- most of them pen-and-ink sketches , with a few flights into water colour .
Aunt Rebecca sniffed at them and deplored the driving of tacks into the plaster .
Aunt Rebecca thought Jane Lavinia's artistic labours a flat waste of time , which would have been much better put into rugs and crochet tidies and afghans .
All the other girls in Chestercote made rugs and tidies and afghans .
Why must Jane Lavinia keep messing with ink and crayons and water colours ?
Jane Lavinia only knew that she must -- she could not help it .
There was something in her that demanded expression thus .
When Mr. Stephens , who was a well-known artist and magazine illustrator , came to Chestercote because his wife's father , Nathan Whittaker , was ill , Jane Lavinia's heart had bounded with a shy hope .
She indulged in some harmless manoeuvring which , with the aid of good-natured Mrs. Whittaker , was crowned with success .
One day , when Mr. Whittaker was getting better , Mr. Stephens had asked her to show him some of her work .
Jane Lavinia , wearing the despised sailor hat , had gone over to the Whittaker place with some of her best sketches .
She came home again feeling as if all the world and herself were transfigured .
She looked out from the window of her little room with great dreamy brown eyes , seeing through the fir boughs the golden western sky beyond , serving as a canvas whereon her fancy painted glittering visions of her future .
She would go to New York -- and study -- and work , oh , so hard -- and go abroad -- and work harder -- and win success -- and be great and admired and famous -- if only Aunt Rebecca -- ah !
if only Aunt Rebecca !
Jane Lavinia sighed .
There was spring in the world and spring in Jane Lavinia's heart ; but a chill came with the thought of Aunt Rebecca , who considered tidies and afghans nicer than her pictures .
`` But I 'm going , anyway , '' said Jane Lavinia decidedly .
`` If Aunt Rebecca won't give me the money , I'll find some other way .
I 'm not afraid of any amount of work .
After what Mr. Stephens said , I believe I could work twenty hours out of the twenty-four .
I 'd be content to live on a crust and sleep in a garret -- yes , and wear sailor hats with stiff bows and blue roses the year round . ''
Jane Lavinia sighed in luxurious renunciation .
Oh , it was good to be alive -- to be a girl of seventeen , with wonderful ambitions and all the world before her !
The years of the future sparkled and gleamed alluringly .
Jane Lavinia , with her head on the window sill , looked out into the sunset splendour and dreamed .
Athwart her dreams , rending in twain their frail , rose-tinted fabric , came Aunt Rebecca's voice from the kitchen below , `` Jane Lavinia !
Jane Lavinia !
Ain't you going for the cows tonight ? ''
Jane Lavinia started up guiltily ; she had forgotten all about the cows .
She slipped off her muslin dress and hurried into her print ; but with all her haste it took time , and Aunt Rebecca was grimmer than ever when Jane Lavinia ran downstairs .
`` It'll be dark before we get the cows milked .
I s ` pose you've been day-dreaming again up there .
I do wish , Jane Lavinia , that you had more sense . ''
Jane Lavinia made no response .
At any other time she would have gone out with a lump in her throat ; but now , after what Mr. Stephens had said , Aunt Rebecca's words had no power to hurt her .
`` After milking I'll ask her about it , '' she said to herself , as she went blithely down the sloping yard , across the little mossy bridge over the brook , and up the lane on the hill beyond , where the ferns grew thickly and the grass was beset with tiny blue-eyes like purple stars .
The air was moist and sweet .
At the top of the lane a wild plum tree hung out its branches of feathery bloom against the crimson sky .
Jane Lavinia lingered , in spite of Aunt Rebecca's hurry , to look at it .
It satisfied her artistic instinct and made her glad to be alive in the world where wild plums blossomed against springtime skies .
The pleasure of it went with her through the pasture and back to the milking yard ; and stayed with her while she helped Aunt Rebecca milk the cows .
When the milk was strained into the creamers down at the spring , and the pails washed and set in a shining row on their bench , Jane Lavinia tried to summon up her courage to speak to Aunt Rebecca .
They were out on the back verandah ; the spring twilight was purpling down over the woods and fields ; down in the swamp the frogs were singing a silvery , haunting chorus ; a little baby moon was floating in the clear sky above the white-blossoming orchard on the slope .
Jane Lavinia tried to speak and couldn't .
For a wonder , Aunt Rebecca spared her the trouble .
`` Well , what did Mr. Stephens think of your pictures ? ''
she asked shortly .
`` Oh ! ''
Everything that Jane Lavinia wanted to say came rushing at once and together to her tongue's end .
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , he was delighted with them !
And he said I had remarkable talent , and he wants me to go to New York and study in an art school there .
He says Mrs. Stephens finds it hard to get good help , and if I 'd be willing to work for her in the mornings , I could live with them and have my afternoons off .
So it won't cost much .
And he said he would help me -- and , oh , Aunt Rebecca , can't I go ? ''
Jane Lavinia's breath gave out with a gasp of suspense .
Aunt Rebecca was silent for so long a space that Jane Lavinia had time to pass through the phases of hope and fear and despair and resignation before she said , more grimly than ever , `` If your mind is set on going , go you will , I suppose .
It doesn't seem to me that I have anything to say in the matter , Jane Lavinia . ''
`` But , oh , Aunt Rebecca , '' said Jane Lavinia tremulously .
`` I can't go unless you'll help me .
I'll have to pay for my lessons at the art school , you know . ''
`` So that's it , is it ?
And do you expect me to give you the money to pay for them , Jane Lavinia ? ''
`` Not give -- exactly , '' stammered Jane Lavinia .
`` I'll pay it back some time , Aunt Rebecca .
Oh , indeed , I will -- when I 'm able to earn money by my pictures ! ''
`` The security is hardly satisfactory , '' said Aunt Rebecca immovably .
`` You know well enough I haven't much money , Jane Lavinia .
I thought when I was coaxed into giving you two quarters ' lessons with Miss Claxton that it was as much as you could expect me to do for you .
I didn't suppose the next thing would be that you 'd be for betaking yourself to New York and expecting me to pay your bills there . ''
Aunt Rebecca turned and went into the house .
Jane Lavinia , feeling sore and bruised in spirit ; fled to her own room and cried herself to sleep .
Her eyes were swollen the next morning , but she was not sulky .
Jane Lavinia never sulked .
She did her morning's work faithfully , although there was no spring in her step .
That afternoon , when she was out in the orchard trying to patch up her tattered dreams , Aunt Rebecca came down the blossomy avenue , a tall , gaunt figure , with an uncompromising face .
`` You 'd better go down to the store and get ten yards of white cotton , Jane Lavinia , '' she said .
`` If you 're going to New York , you'll have to get a supply of underclothing made . ''
Jane Lavinia opened her eyes .
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , am I going ? ''
`` You can go if you want to .
I'll give you all the money I can spare .
It ain't much , but perhaps it'll be enough for a start . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , thank you ! ''
exclaimed Jane Lavinia , crimson with conflicting feelings .
`` But perhaps I oughtn't to take it -- perhaps I oughtn't to leave you alone -- '' If Aunt Rebecca had shown any regret at the thought of Jane Lavinia's departure , Jane Lavinia would have foregone New York on the spot .
But Aunt Rebecca only said coldly , `` I guess you needn't worry over that .
I can get along well enough . ''
And with that it was settled .
Jane Lavinia lived in a whirl of delight for the next week .
She felt few regrets at leaving Chestercote .
Aunt Rebecca would not miss her ; Jane Lavinia thought that Aunt Rebecca regarded her as a nuisance -- a foolish girl who wasted her time making pictures instead of doing something useful .
Jane Lavinia had never thought that Aunt Rebecca had any affection for her .
She had been a very little girl when her parents had died , and Aunt Rebecca had taken her to bring up .
Accordingly she had been `` brought up , '' and she was grateful to Aunt Rebecca , but there was no closer bond between them .
Jane Lavinia would have given love for love unstintedly , but she never supposed that Aunt Rebecca loved her .
On the morning of departure Jane Lavinia was up and ready early .
Her trunk had been taken over to Mr. Whittaker's the night before , and she was to walk over in the morning and go with Mr. and Mrs. Stephens to the station .
She put on her chiffon hat to travel in , and Aunt Rebecca did not say a word of protest .
Jane Lavinia cried when she said good-by , but Aunt Rebecca did not cry .
She shook hands and said stiffly , `` Write when you get to New York .
You needn't let Mrs. Stephens work you to death either . ''
Jane Lavinia went slowly over the bridge and up the lane .
If only Aunt Rebecca had been a little sorry !
But the morning was perfect and the air clear as crystal , and she was going to New York , and fame and fortune were to be hers for the working .
Jane Lavinia's spirits rose and bubbled over in a little trill of song .
Then she stopped in dismay .
She had forgotten her watch -- her mother's little gold watch ; she had left it on her dressing table .
Jane Lavinia hurried down the lane and back to the house .
In the open kitchen doorway she paused , standing on a mosaic of gold and shadow where the sunshine fell through the morning-glory vines .
Nobody was in the kitchen , but Aunt Rebecca was in the little bedroom that opened off it , crying bitterly and talking aloud between her sobs , `` Oh , she's gone and left me all alone -- my girl has gone !
Oh , what shall I do ?
And she didn't care -- she was glad to go -- glad to get away .
Well , it ain't any wonder .
I've always been too cranky with her .
But I loved her so much all the time , and I was so proud of her !
I liked her picture-making real well , even if I did complain of her wasting her time .
Oh , I don't know how I 'm ever going to keep on living now she's gone ! ''
Jane Lavinia listened with a face from which all the sparkle and excitement had gone .
Yet amid all the wreck and ruin of her tumbling castles in air , a glad little thrill made itself felt .
Aunt Rebecca was sorry -- Aunt Rebecca did love her after all !
Jane Lavinia turned and walked noiselessly away .
As she went swiftly up the wild plum lane , some tears brimmed up in her eyes , but there was a smile on her lips and a song in her heart .
After all , it was nicer to be loved than to be rich and admired and famous .
When she reached Mr. Whittaker's , everybody was out in the yard ready to start .
`` Hurry up , Jane Lavinia , '' said Mr. Whittaker .
`` Blest if we hadn't begun to think you weren't coming at all .
Lively now . ''
`` I am not going , '' said Jane Lavinia calmly .
`` Not going ? ''
they all exclaimed .
`` No .
I 'm very sorry , and very grateful to you , Mr. Stephens , but I can't leave Aunt Rebecca .
She 'd miss me too much . ''
`` Well , you little goose ! ''
said Mrs. Whittaker .
Mrs. Stephens said nothing , but frowned coldly .
Perhaps her thoughts were less of the loss to the world of art than of the difficulty of hunting up another housemaid .
Mr. Stephens looked honestly regretful .
`` I 'm sorry , very sorry , Miss Slade , '' he said .
`` You have exceptional talent , and I think you ought to cultivate it . ''
`` I am going to cultivate Aunt Rebecca , '' said Jane Lavinia .
Nobody knew just what she meant , but they all understood the firmness of her tone .
Her trunk was taken down out of the express wagon , and Mr. and Mrs. Stephens drove away .
Then Jane Lavinia went home .
She found Aunt Rebecca washing the breakfast dishes , with the big tears rolling down her face .
`` Goodness me ! ''
she cried , when Jane Lavinia walked in .
`` What's the matter ?
You ain't gone and been too late ! ''
`` No , I've just changed my mind , Aunt Rebecca .
They've gone without me .
I am not going to New York -- I don't want to go .
I 'd rather stay at home with you . ''
For a moment Aunt Rebecca stared at her .
Then she stepped forward and flung her arms about the girl .
`` Oh , Jane Lavinia , '' she said with a sob , `` I 'm so glad !
I couldn't see how I was going to get along without you , but I thought you didn't care .
You can wear that chiffon hat everywhere you want to , and I'll get you a pink organdy dress for Sundays . ''
