Estella was waiting under the poplars at the gate for Spencer Morgan .
She was engaged to him , and he always came to see her on Saturday and Wednesday evenings .
It was after sunset , and the air was mellow and warm-hued .
The willow trees along the walk and the tall birches in the background stood out darkly distinct against the lemon-tinted sky .
The breath of mint floated out from the garden , and the dew was falling heavily .
Estella leaned against the gate , listening for the sound of wheels and dreamily watching the light shining out from the window of Vivienne LeMar 's room .
The blind was up and she could see Miss LeMar writing at her table .
Her profile was clear and distinct against the lamplight .
Estella reflected without the least envy that Miss LeMar was very beautiful .
She had never seen anyone who was really beautiful before -- beautiful with the loveliness of the heroines in the novels she sometimes read or the pictures she had seen .
Estella Bowes was not pretty .
She was a nice-looking girl , with clear eyes , rosy cheeks , and a pervading air of the content and happiness her life had always known .
She was an orphan and lived with her uncle and aunt .
In the summer they sometimes took a boarder for a month or two , and this summer Miss LeMar had come .
She had been with them about a week .
She was an actress from the city and had around her all the glamour of a strange , unknown life .
Nothing was known about her .
The Boweses liked her well enough as a boarder .
Estella admired and held her in awe .
She wondered what Spencer would think of this beautiful woman .
He had not yet seen her .
It was quite dark when he came .
Estella opened the gate for him , but he got out of his buggy and walked up the lane beside her with his arm about her .
Miss LeMar 's light had removed to the parlour where she was singing , accompanying herself on the cottage organ .
Estella felt annoyed .
The parlour was considered her private domain on Wednesday and Saturday night , but Miss LeMar did not know that .
`` Who is singing ? ''
asked Spencer .
`` What a voice she has ! ''
`` That 's our new boarder , Miss LeMar , '' answered Estella .
`` She 's an actress and sings and does everything .
She is awfully pretty , Spencer . ''
`` Yes ? ''
said the young man indifferently .
He was not in the least interested in the Boweses ' new boarder .
Indeed , he considered her advent a nuisance .
He pressed Estella closer to him , and when they reached the garden gate he kissed her .
Estella always remembered that moment afterwards .
She was so supremely happy .
Spencer went off to put up his horse , and Estella waited for him on the porch steps , wondering if any other girl in the world could be quite so happy as she was , or love anyone as much as she loved Spencer .
She did not see how it could be possible , because there was only one Spencer .
When Spencer came back she took him into the parlour , half shyly , half proudly .
He was a handsome fellow , with a magnificent physique .
Miss LeMar stopped singing and turned around on the organ stool as they entered .
The little room was flooded with a mellow light from the pink-globed lamp on the table , and in the soft , shadowy radiance she was as beautiful as a dream .
She wore a dress of crepe , cut low in the neck .
Estella had never seen anyone dressed so before .
To her it seemed immodest .
She introduced Spencer .
He bowed awkwardly and sat stiffly down by the window with his eyes riveted on Miss LeMar 's face .
Estella , catching a glimpse of herself in the old-fashioned mirror above the mantel , suddenly felt a cold chill of dissatisfaction .
Her figure had never seemed to her so stout and stiff , her brown hair so dull and prim , her complexion so muddy , her features so commonplace .
She wished Miss LeMar would go out of the room .
Vivienne LeMar watched the two faces before her ; a hard gleam , half mockery , half malice , flashed into her eyes and a smile crept about her lips .
She looked straight in Spencer Morgan 's honest blue eyes and read there the young man 's dazzled admiration .
There was contempt in the look she turned on Estella .
`` You were singing when we came in , '' said Spencer .
`` won't you go on , please ?
I am very fond of music . ''
Miss LeMar turned again to the organ .
The gleaming curves of her neck and shoulders rose out of their filmy sheathings of lace .
Spencer , sitting where he could see her face with its rose-leaf bloom and the ringlets of golden hair clustering about it , gazed at her , unheeding of aught else .
Estella saw his look .
She suddenly began to hate the black-eyed witch at the organ -- and to fear her as well .
Why did Spencer look at her like that ?
She wished she had not brought him in at all .
She felt commonplace and angry , and wanted to cry .
Vivienne LeMar went on singing , drifting from one sweet love song into another .
Once she looked up at Spencer Morgan .
He rose quickly and went to her side , looking down at her with a strange fire in his eyes .
Estella got up abruptly and left the room .
She was angry and jealous , but she thought Spencer would follow her .
When he did not , she could not believe it .
She waited on the porch for him , not knowing whether she were more angry or miserable .
She would not go back into the room .
Vivienne LeMar had stopped singing .
She could hear a low murmur of voices .
When she had waited there an hour , she went in and upstairs to her room with ostentatious footsteps .
She was too angry to cry or to realize what had happened , and still kept hoping all sorts of impossible things as she sat by her window .
It was ten o'clock when Spencer went away and Vivienne LeMar passed up the hall to her room .
Estella clenched her hands in an access of helpless rage .
She was very angry , but under her fury was a horrible ache of pain .
It could not be only three hours since she had been so happy !
It must be more than that !
What had happened ?
Had she made a fool of herself ?
Ought she to have behaved in any other way ?
Perhaps Spencer had come out to look for her after she had gone upstairs and , not finding her , had gone back to Miss LeMar to show her he was angry .
This poor hope was a small comfort .
She wished she had not acted as she had .
It looked spiteful and jealous , and Spencer did not like people who were spiteful and jealous .
She would show him she was sorry when he came back , and it would be all right .
She lay awake most of the night , thinking out plausible reasons and excuses for Spencer 's behaviour , and trying to convince herself that she had exaggerated everything absurdly .
Towards morning she fell asleep and awoke hardly remembering what had happened .
Then it rolled back upon her crushingly .
But she rose and dressed in better spirits .
It had been hardest to lie there and do nothing .
Now the day was before her and something pleasant might happen .
Spencer might come back in the evening .
She would be doubly nice to him to make up .
Mrs. Bowes looked sharply at her niece 's dull eyes and pale cheeks at the breakfast table .
She had her own thoughts of things .
She was a large , handsome woman with a rather harsh face .
`` Did you go upstairs last night and leave Spencer Morgan with Miss LeMar ? ''
she asked bluntly .
`` Yes , '' muttered Estella .
`` Did you have a quarrel with him ? ''
`` No . ''
`` What made you act so queer ? ''
`` I couldn't help it , '' faltered the girl .
The food she was eating seemed to choke her .
She wished she were a hundred miles away from everyone she ever knew .
Mrs. Bowes gave a grunt of dissatisfaction .
`` Well , I think it is a pretty queer piece of business .
But if you are satisfied , it isn't anyone else 's concern , I suppose .
He stayed with her till ten o'clock and when he left she did everything but kiss him -- and she asked him to come back too .
I heard . ''
`` Aunt ! ''
protested the girl .
She felt as if her aunt were striking her blow after blow on a sensitive , quivering spot .
It was bad enough to know it all , but to hear it put into such cold , brutal words was more than she could endure .
It seemed to make everything so horribly sure .
`` I guess I had a right to listen , hadn't I , with such goings on in my own house ?
You 're a little fool , Estella Bowes !
I don't believe that LeMar girl is a bit better than she ought to be .
I wish I 'd never taken her to board , and if you say so , I'll send her packing right off and not give her a chance to make mischief atween folks . ''
Estella 's suffering found vent in a burst of anger .
`` You needn't do anything of the sort ! ''
she cried .
`` It 's all nonsense about Spencer -- it was my fault -- and anyhow , if he is so easily led away as that , I am sure I don't want him !
I wish to goodness , Aunt , you 'd leave me alone ! ''
`` Oh , very well ! ''
returned Mrs. Bowes in an offended tone .
`` It was for your own good I spoke .
You know best , I suppose .
If you don't care , I don't know that anyone else need . ''
Estella went about her work like one in a dream .
A great hatred had sprung up in her heart against Vivienne LeMar .
The simple-hearted country girl felt almost murderous .
The whole day seemed like a nightmare to her .
When night came she dressed herself with feverish care , for she could not quell the hope that Spencer would surely come again .
But he did not ; and when she went up to bed , it did not seem as if she could live through the night .
She lay staring wide-eyed through the darkness until dawn .
She wished that she might cry , but no tears came to her relief .
Next day she went to work with furious energy .
When her usual tasks were done , she ransacked the house for other employment .
She was afraid if she stopped work for a moment she would go mad .
Mrs. Bowes watched her with a grim pity .
At night she walked to prayer meeting in the schoolhouse a mile away .
She always went , and Spencer was generally on hand to see her home .
He was not there tonight .
She wished she had not come .
It was dreadful to have to sit still and think .
She did not hear a word the minister said .
She had to walk home with a crowd of girls and nerve herself to answer their merry sallies that no one might suspect .
She was tortured by the fear that everyone knew her shame and humiliation and was pitying her .
She got hysterically gay , but underneath all she was constantly trying to assign a satisfactory reason for Spencer 's nonappearance .
He was often kept away , and of course he was a little cross at her yet , as was natural .
If he had come before her then , she could have gone down in the very dust at his feet and implored his forgiveness .
When she reached home she went into the garden and sat down .
The calm of the night soothed her .
She felt happier and more hopeful .
She thought over all that had passed between her and Spencer and all his loving assurances , and the recollection comforted her .
She was almost happy when she went in .
Tomorrow is Sunday , she thought when she wakened in the morning .
Her step was lighter and her face brighter .
Mrs. Bowes seemed to be in a bad humour .
Presently she said bluntly : `` Do you know that Spencer Morgan was here last night ? ''
Estella felt the cold tighten round her heart .
Yet underneath it sprang up a wild , sweet hope .
`` Spencer here !
I suppose he forgot it was prayer meeting night .
What did he say ?
Why didn't you tell him where I was ? ''
`` I don't know that he forgot it was prayer meeting night , '' returned Mrs. Bowes with measured emphasis . ''
'T isn't likely his memory has failed so all at once .
He didn't ask where you was .
He took good care to go before you got home too .
Miss LeMar entertained him .
I guess she was quite capable of it . ''
Estella bent over her dishes in silence .
Her face was deadly white .
`` I'll send her away , '' said Mrs. Bowes pityingly .
`` When she 's gone , Spencer will soon come back to you . ''
`` No , you won't ! ''
said Estella fiercely .
`` If you do , she'll only go over to Barstows ' , and it would be worse than ever .
I don't care -- I'll show them both I don't care !
As for Spencer coming back to me , do you think I want her leavings ?
He 's welcome to go . ''
`` He 's only just fooled by her pretty face , '' persisted Mrs. Bowes in a clumsy effort at consolation .
`` She 's just turning his head , the hussy , and he isn't really in his proper senses .
you'll see , he'll be ashamed of himself when he comes to them again .
He knows very well in his heart that you 're worth ten girls like her . ''
Estella faced around .
`` Aunt , '' she said desperately , `` you mean well , I know , but you 're killing me !
I can't stand it .
For pity 's sake , don't say another word to me about this , no matter what happens .
And don't keep looking at me as if I were a martyr !
She watches us and it would please her to think I cared .
I don't -- and I mean she shall see I don't .
I guess I 'm well rid of a fellow as fickle as he is , and I've sense enough to know it . ''
She went upstairs then , tearing off her turquoise engagement ring as she climbed the steps .
All sorts of wild ideas flashed through her head .
She would go down and confront Vivienne LeMar -- she would rush off and find Spencer and throw his ring at him , no matter where he was -- she would go away where no one would ever see her again .
Why couldn't she die ?
Was it possible people could suffer like this and yet go on living ?
`` I don't care -- I don't care ! ''
she moaned , telling the lie aloud to herself , as if she hoped that by this means she would come to believe it .
When twilight came she went out to the front steps and leaned her aching head against the honeysuckle trellis .
The sun had just set and the whole world swam in dusky golden light .
The wonderful beauty frightened her .
She felt like a blot on it .
While she stood there , a buggy came driving up the lane and wheeled about at the steps .
In it was Spencer Morgan .
Estella saw him and , in spite of the maddening throb of hope that seemed suddenly to transfigure the world for her , her pride rose in arms .
Had Spencer come the night before , he would have found her loving and humble .
Even now , had she but been sure that he had come to see her , she would have unbent .
But was it the other ?
The torturing doubt stung her to the quick .
She waited , stubbornly resolved that she would not speak first .
It was not in her place .
Spencer Morgan flicked his horse sharply with his whip .
He dared not look at Estella , but he felt her uncompromising attitude .
He was miserably ashamed of himself , and he felt angry at Estella for his shame .
`` Do you care to come for a drive ? ''
he asked awkwardly , with a covert glance at the parlour windows .
Estella caught the glance and her jealous perception instantly divined its true significance .
Her heart died within her .
She did not care what she said .
`` Oh , '' she cried with a toss of her head , `` it 's not me you want -- it 's Miss LeMar , isn't it ?
She 's away at the shore .
you'll find her there , I dare say . ''
Still , in spite of all , she perversely hoped .
If he would only make any sign , the least in the world , that he was sorry -- that he still loved her -- she could forgive him everything .
When he drove away without another word , she could not believe it again .
Surely he would not go -- surely he knew she did not mean it -- he would turn back before he got to the gate .
But he did not .
She saw him disappear around the turn of the road .
She could not see if he took the shore lane further on , but she was sure he would .
She was furious at herself for acting as she had done .
It was all her fault again !
Oh , if he would only give her another chance !
She was in her room when she heard the buggy drive up again .
She knew it was Spencer and that he had brought Vivienne LeMar home .
Acting on a sudden wild impulse , the girl stepped out on the landing and confronted her rival as she came up the stairs .
The latter paused at sight of the white face and anguished eyes .
There was a little mocking smile on her lovely face .
`` Miss LeMar , '' said Estella in a quivering voice , `` what do you mean by all this ?
You know I 'm engaged to Spencer Morgan ! ''
Miss LeMar laughed softly .
`` Really ?
If you are engaged to the young man , my dear Miss Bowes , I would advise you to look after him more sharply .
He seems very willing to flirt , I should say . ''
She passed on to her room with a malicious smile .
Estella shrank back against the wall , humiliated and baffled .
When she found herself alone , she crawled back to her room and threw herself face downward on the bed , praying that she might die .
But she had to live through the horrible month that followed -- a month so full of agony that she seemed to draw every breath in pain .
Spencer never sought her again ; he went everywhere with Miss LeMar .
His infatuation was the talk of the settlement .
Estella knew that her story was in everyone 's mouth , and her pride smarted ; but she carried a brave front outwardly .
No one should say she cared .
She believed that the actress was merely deluding Spencer for her own amusement and would never dream of marrying him .
But one day the idea occurred to her that she might .
Estella had always told herself that even if Spencer wanted to come back to her she would never take him back , but now , by the half-sick horror that came over her , she knew how strong the hope had really been and despised herself more than ever .
One evening she was alone in the parlour .
She had lit the lamp and was listlessly arranging the little room .
She looked old and worn .
Her colour was gone and her eyes were dull .
As she worked , the door opened and Vivienne LeMar walked or , rather , reeled into the room .
Estella dropped the book she held and gazed at her as one in a dream .
The actress 's face was flushed and her hair was wildly disordered .
Her eyes glittered with an unearthly light .
She was talking incoherently .
The air was heavy with the fumes of brandy .
Estella laughed hysterically .
Vivienne LeMar was grossly intoxicated .
This woman whom Spencer Morgan worshipped , for whom he had forsaken her , was reeling about the room , laughing idiotically , talking wildly in a thick voice .
If he could but see her now !
Estella turned white with the passion of the wild idea that had come to her .
Spencer Morgan should see this woman in her true colours .
She lost no time .
Swiftly she left the room and locked the door behind her on the maudlin , babbling creature inside .
Then she flung a shawl over her head and ran from the house .
It was not far to the Morgan homestead .
She ran all the way , hardly knowing what she was doing .
Mrs. Morgan answered her knock .
She gazed in bewilderment at Estella 's wild face .
`` I want Spencer , '' said the girl through her white lips .
The elder woman stepped back in dumb amazement .
She knew and rued her son 's folly .
What could Estella want with him ?
The young man appeared in the doorway .
Estella caught him by the arm and pulled him outside .
`` Miss LeMar wants you at once , '' she said hoarsely .
`` At once -- you are to come at once ! ''
`` Has anything happened to her ? ''
cried Spencer savagely .
`` Is she ill -- is she -- what is the matter ? ''
`` No , she is not ill .
But she wants you .
Come at once . ''
He started off bareheaded .
Estella followed him up the road breathlessly .
Surely it was the strangest walk ever a girl had , she told herself with mirthless laughter .
She pushed the key into his hand at the porch .
`` She 's in the parlour , '' she said wildly .
`` Go in and look at her , Spencer . ''
Spencer snatched the key and fitted it into the door .
He was full of fear .
Had Estella gone out of her mind ?
Had she done anything to Vivienne ?
Had she -- As he entered , the actress reeled to her feet and came to meet him .
He stood and gazed at her stupidly .
This could not be Vivienne , this creature reeking with brandy , uttering such foolish words !
What fiend was this in her likeness ?
He grew sick at heart and brain ; she had her arms about him .
He tried to push her away , but she clung closer , and her senseless laughter echoed through the room .
He flung her from him with an effort and rushed out through the hall and down the road like a madman .
Estella , watching him , felt that she was avenged .
She was glad with a joy more pitiful than grief .
Vivienne LeMar left the cottage the next day .
Mrs. Bowes , suspecting some mystery , questioned Estella sharply , but could find out nothing .
The girl kept her own counsel stubbornly .
The interest and curiosity of the village centred around Spencer Morgan , and his case was well discussed .
Gossip said that the actress had jilted him and that he was breaking his heart about it .
Then came the rumour that he was going West .
Estella heard it apathetically .
Life seemed ended for her .
There was nothing to look forward to .
She could not even look back .
All the past was embittered .
She had never met Spencer since the night she went after him .
She sometimes wondered what he must think of her for what she had done .
Did he think her unwomanly and revengeful ?
She did not care .
It was rather a relief to hear that he was going away .
She would not be tortured by the fear of meeting him then .
She was sure he would never come back to her .
If he did , she would never forgive him .
One evening in early harvest Estella was lingering by the lane gate at twilight .
She had worked slavishly all day and was very tired , but she was loath to go into the house , where her trouble always seemed to weigh on her more heavily .
The dusk , sweet night seemed to soothe her as it always did .
She leaned her head against the poplar by the gate .
How long Spencer Morgan had been standing by her she did not know , but when she looked up he was there .
In the dim light she could see how haggard and hollow-eyed he had grown .
He had changed almost as much as herself .
The girl 's first proud impulse was to turn coldly away and leave him .
But some strange tumult in her heart kept her still .
What had he come to say ?
There was a moment 's fateful silence .
Then Spencer spoke in a muffled voice .
`` I couldn't go away without seeing you once more , Estella , to say good-bye .
Perhaps you won't speak to me .
You must hate me .
I deserve it . ''
He paused , but she said no word .
She could not .
After a space , he went wistfully on .
`` I know you can never forgive me -- no girl could .
I've behaved like a fool .
There isn't any excuse to be made for me .
I don't think I could have been in my right senses , Estella .
It all seems like some bad dream now .
When I saw her that night , I came to my right mind , and I've been the most miserable man alive ever since .
Not for her -- but because I 'd lost you .
I can't bear to live here any longer , so I am going away .
Will you say good-bye , Estella ? ''
Still she did not speak .
There were a hundred things she wanted to say but she could not say them .
Did he mean that he loved her still ?
If she were sure of that , she could forgive him anything , but her doubt rendered her mute .
The young man turned away despairingly from her rigid attitude .
So be it -- he had brought his fate on himself .
He had gone but a few steps when Estella suddenly found her voice with a gasp .
`` Spencer ! ''
He came swiftly back .
`` Oh , Spencer -- do -- you -- do you love me still ? ''
He caught her hands in his .
`` Love you -- oh , Estella , yes , yes !
I always have .
That other wasn't love -- it was just madness .
When it passed I hated life because I 'd lost you .
I know you can't forgive me , but , oh -- '' He broke down .
Estella flung her arms around his neck and put her face up to his .
She felt as if her heart must break with its great happiness .
He understood her mute pardon .
In their kiss the past was put aside .
Estella 's martyrdom was ended .
