' I perfectly hate it !
and something dreadful ought to be done to the woman who invented it , ' said Patty , in a pet , sending a shower of gay pieces flying over the carpet as if a small whirlwind and a rainbow had got into a quarrel .
Puss did not agree with Patty , for , after a surprised hop when the flurry came , she calmly laid herself down on a red square , purring comfortably and winking her yellow eyes , as if she thanked the little girl for the bright bed that set off her white fur so prettily .
This cool performance made Patty laugh , and say more pleasantly -- ` Well , it is tiresome , isn't it , Aunt Pen ? '
` Sometimes ; but we all have to make patchwork , my dear , and do the best we can with the pieces given us . '
` Do we ? '
and Patty opened her eyes in great astonishment at this new idea .
` Our lives are patchwork , and it depends on us a good deal how the bright and dark bits get put together so that the whole is neat , pretty , and useful when it is done , ' said Aunt Pen soberly .
` Deary me , now she is going to preach , ' thought Patty ; but she rather liked Aunt Pen's preachments , for a good deal of fun got mixed up with the moralising ; and she was so good herself that children could never say in their naughty little minds , ` You are just as bad as we , so you needn't talk to us , ma'am . ' '
I gave you that patchwork to see what you would make of it , and it is as good as a diary to me , for I can tell by the different squares how you felt when you made them , ' continued Aunt Pen , with a twinkle in her eye as she glanced at the many-coloured bits on the carpet .
` Can you truly ?
just try and see , ' and Patty looked interested at once .
Pointing with the yard-measure , Aunt Pen said , tapping a certain dingy , puckered , brown and purple square -- ` That is a bad day ; don't it look so ? '
` Well , it was , I do declare !
for that was the Monday piece , when everything went wrong and I didn't care how my work looked , ' cried Patty , surprised at Aunt Pen's skill in reading the calico diary .
` This pretty pink and white one so neatly sewed is a good day ; this funny mixture of red , blue , and yellow with the big stitches is a merry day ; that one with spots on it is one that got cried over ; this with the gay flowers is a day full of good little plans and resolutions ; and that one made of dainty bits , all stars and dots and tiny leaves , is the one you made when you were thinking about the dear new baby there at home . '
` Why , Aunt Pen , you are a fairy !
How did you know ?
they truly are just as you say , as near as I can remember .
I rather like that sort of patchwork , ' and Patty sat down upon the floor to collect , examine , and arrange her discarded work with a new interest in it . '
I see what is going on , and I have queer plays in my mind just as you little folks do .
Suppose you make this a moral bed-quilt , as some people make album quilts .
See how much patience , perseverance , good nature , and industry you can put into it .
Every bit will have a lesson or a story , and when you lie under it you will find it a real comforter , ' said Aunt Pen , who wanted to amuse the child and teach her something better even than the good old-fashioned accomplishment of needlework . '
I don't see how I can put that sort of thing into it , ' answered Patty , as she gently lifted puss into her lap , instead of twitching the red bit roughly from under her .
` There goes a nice little piece of kindness this very minute , ' laughed Aunt Pen , pointing to the cat and the red square .
Patty laughed also , and looked pleased as she stroked Mother Bunch , while she said thoughtfully -- ' I see what you mean now .
I am making two kinds of patchwork at the same time ; and this that I see is to remind me of the other kind that I don't see . '
` Every task , no matter how small or homely , that gets well and cheerfully done , is a fine thing ; and the sooner we learn to use up the dark and bright bits the pleasures and pains , the cares and duties into a cheerful , useful life , the sooner we become real comforters , and every one likes to cuddle about us .
Don't you see , deary ? '
` That's what you are , Aunt Pen ; ' and Patty put up her hand to hold fast by that other strong , kind , helpful hand that did so much , yet never was tired , cold , or empty .
Aunt Pen took the chubby little one in both her own , and said , smiling , yet with meaning in her eyes , as she tapped the small fore-finger , rough with impatient and unskilful sewing -- ` Shall we try and see what a nice little comforter we can make this month , while you wait to be called home to see mamma and the dear new baby ? '
` Yes , I 'd like to try ; ' and Patty gave Aunt Pen's hand a hearty shake , for she wanted to be good , and rather thought the new fancy would lend a charm to the task which we all find rather tiresome and hard .
So the bargain was made , and the patch Patty sewed that day was beautiful to behold ; for she was in a delightfully moral state of mind , and felt quite sure that she was going to become a model for all children to follow , if they could .
The next day her ardour had cooled a little , and being in a hurry to go out to play , she slighted her work , thinking no one would know .
But the third day she got so angry with her patch that she tore it in two , and declared it was all nonsense to fuss about being good and thorough and all the rest of it .
Aunt Pen did not say much , but made her mend and finish her patch and add it to the pile .
After she went to bed that night Patty thought of it , and wished she could do it over , it looked so badly .
But as it could not be , she had a penitent fit , and resolved to keep her temper while she sewed , at any rate , for mamma was to see the little quilt when it was done , and would want to know all about it .
Of course she did not devote herself to being good all the time , but spent her days in lessons , play , mischief , and fun , like any other lively , ten-year-older .
But somehow , whenever the sewing-hour came , she remembered that talk ; and as she worked she fell into the way of wondering whether Aunt Pen could guess from the patches what sort of days she had passed .
She wanted to try and see , but Aunt Pen refused to read any more calico till the quilt was done : then , she said in a queer , solemn way , she should make the good and bad days appear in a remarkable manner .
This puzzled Patty very much , and she quite ached to know what the joke would be ; meantime the pile grew steadily , and every day , good or bad , added to that other work called Patty's life .
She did not think much about that part of it , but unconsciously the quiet sewing-time had its influence on her , and that little ` conscience hour , ' as she sometimes called it , helped her very much .
One day she said to herself as she took up her work , ` Now I'll puzzle Aunt Pen .
She thinks my naughty tricks get into the patches ; but I'll make this very nicely and have it gay , and then I don't see how she will ever guess what I did this morning . '
Now you must know that Tweedle-dee , the canary , was let out every day to fly about the room and enjoy himself .
Mother Bunch never tried to catch him , though he often hopped temptingly near her .
He was a droll little bird , and Patty liked to watch his promenades , for he did funny things .
That day he made her laugh by trying to fly away with a shawl , picking up the fringe with which to line the nest he was always trying to build .
It was so heavy he tumbled on his back and lay kicking and pulling , but had to give it up and content himself with a bit of thread .
Patty was forbidden to chase or touch him at these times , but always felt a strong desire to have just one grab at him and see how he felt .
That day , being alone in the dining-room , she found it impossible to resist ; and when Tweedle-dee came tripping pertly over the table-cloth , cocking his head on one side with shrill chirps and little prancings , she caught him , and for a minute held him fast in spite of his wrathful pecking .
She put her thimble on his head , laughing to see how funny he looked , and just then he slipped out of her hand .
She clutched at him , missed him , but alas , alas !
he left his little tail behind him .
Every feather in his blessed little tail , I do assure you ; and there sat Patty with the yellow plumes in her hand and dismay in her face .
Poor Tweedle-dee retired to his cage much afflicted , and sung no more that day , but Patty hid the lost tail and never said a word about it .
` Aunt Pen is so near-sighted she won't mind , and maybe he will have another tail pretty soon , or she will think he is moulting .
If she asks of course I shall tell her . '
Patty settled it in that way , forgetting that the slide was open and Aunt Pen in the kitchen .
So she made a neat blue and buff patch , and put it away , meaning to puzzle aunty when the reading-time came .
But Patty got the worst of it , as you will see by-and-bye .
Another day she strolled into the store-room and saw a large tray of fresh buns standing there .
Now , it was against the rule to eat between meals , and new hot bread or cake was especially forbidden .
Patty remembered both these things , but could not resist temptation .
One plump , brown bun , with a lovely plum right in the middle , was so fascinating it was impossible to let it alone ; so Patty whipped it into her pocket , ran to the garden , and hiding behind the big lilac-bush , ate it in a great hurry .
It was just out of the oven , and so hot it burned her throat , and lay like a live coal in her little stomach after it was down , making her very uncomfortable for several hours .
` Why do you keep sighing ? '
asked Aunt Pen , as Patty sat down to her work . '
I don't feel very well . '
` You have eaten something that disagrees with you .
Did you eat hot biscuits for breakfast ? '
` No , ma'am , I never do , ' and Patty gave another little gasp , for the bun lay very heavily on both stomach and conscience just then . '
A drop or two of ammonia will set you right , ' and Aunt Pen gave her some .
It did set the stomach right , but the conscience still worried her , for she could not make up her mind to ` fess ' the sly , greedy thing she had done .
` Put a white patch in the middle of those green ones , ' said Aunt Pen , as Patty sat soberly sewing her daily square .
` Why ? '
asked the little girl , for aunty seldom interfered in her arrangement of the quilt .
` It will look pretty , and match the other three squares that are going at the corners of that middle piece . '
` Well , I will , ' and Patty sewed away , wondering at this sudden interest in her work , and why Aunt Pen laughed to herself as she put away the ammonia bottle .
These are two of the naughty little things that got worked into the quilt ; but there were good ones also , and Aunt Pen's sharp eyes saw them all .
At the window of a house opposite , Patty often saw a little girl who sat there playing with an old doll or a torn book .
She never seemed to run about or go out , and Patty often wondered if she was sick , she looked so thin and sober , and was so quiet .
Patty began by making faces at her for fun , but the little girl only smiled back , and nodded so good-naturedly that Patty was ashamed of herself .
` Is that girl over there poor ? '
she asked suddenly as she watched her one day .
` Very poor : her mother takes in sewing , and the child is lame , ' answered Aunt Pen , without looking up from the letter she was writing .
` Her doll is nothing but an old shawl tied round with a string , and she don't seem to have but one book .
Wonder if she 'd like to have me come and play with her , ' said Patty to herself , as she stood her own big doll in the window , and nodded back at the girl , who bobbed up and down in her chair with delight at this agreeable prospect .
` You can go and see her some day if you like , ' said Aunt Pen , scribbling away .
Patty said no more then , but later in the afternoon she remembered this permission , and resolved to try if aunty would find out her good doings as well as her bad ones .
So , tucking Blanch Augusta Arabella Maud under one arm , her best picture-book under the other , and gathering a little nosegay of her own flowers , she slipped across the road , knocked , and marched boldly upstairs .
Mrs. Brown , the sewing-woman , was out , and no one there but Lizzie in her chair at the window , looking lonely and forlorn .
` How do you do ?
My name is Patty , and I live over there , and I've come to play with you , ' said one child in a friendly tone .
` How do you do ?
My name is Lizzie , and I 'm very glad to see you .
What a lovely doll ! '
returned the other child gratefully ; and then the ceremony of introduction was over , and they began to play as if they had known each other for ever so long .
To poor Lizzie it seemed as if a little fairy had suddenly appeared to brighten the dismal room with flowers and smiles and pretty things ; while Patty felt her pity and good-will increase as she saw Lizzie's crippled feet , and watched her thin face brighten and glow with interest and delight over book and doll and posy .
` It felt good , ' as Patty said afterwards ; ` sort of warm and comfortable in my heart , and I liked it ever so much . '
She stayed an hour , making sunshine in a shady place , and then ran home , wondering if Aunt Pen would find that out .
She found her sitting with her hands before her , and such a sad look in her face that Patty ran to her , saying anxiously -- ` What's the matter , aunty ?
Are you sick ? '
` No dear ; but I have sorrowful news for you .
Come , sit in my lap and let me tell you as gently as I can . '
` Mamma is dead ! '
Cried Patty with a look of terror in her rosy face .
` No , thank God !
but the dear , new baby only stayed a week , and we shall never see her in this world . '
With a cry of sorrow Patty threw herself into the arms outstretched to her , and on Aunt Pen's loving bosom sobbed away the first bitterness of her grief and disappointment .
` Oh , I wanted a little sister so much , and I was going to be so fond of her , and was so glad she came , and now I can't see or have her even for a day !
I 'm so disappointed I don't think I can bear it , ' sobbed Patty .
` Think of poor mamma , and bear it bravely for her sake , ' whispered Aunt Pen , wiping away her own and Patty's tears .
` Oh , dear me !
there's the pretty quilt I was going to make for baby , and now it isn't any use , and I can't bear to finish it ; ' and Patty broke out afresh at the thought of so much love's labour lost .
` Mamma will love to see it , so I wouldn't give it up .
Work is the best cure for sorrow ; and I think you never will be sorry you tried it .
Let us put a bright bit of submission with this dark trouble , and work both into your little life as patiently as we can , deary . '
Patty put up her trembling lips , and kissed Aunt Pen , grateful for the tender sympathy and the helpful words .
` I'll try , ' was all she said ; and then they sat talking quietly together about the dear , dead baby , who only stayed long enough to make a place in every one's heart , and leave them aching when she went .
Patty did try to bear her first trouble bravely , and got on very well after the first day or two , except when the sewing-hour came .
Then the sight of the pretty patchwork recalled the memory of the cradle it was meant to cover , and reminded her that it was empty now .
Many quiet tears dropped on Patty's work ; and sometimes she had to put it down and sob , for she had longed so for a little sister , it was very hard to give her up , and put away all the loving plans she had made for the happy time when baby came .
A great many tender little thoughts and feelings got sewed into the gay squares ; and if a small stain showed here and there , I think they only added to its beauty in the eyes of those who knew what made them .
Aunt Pen never suggested picking out certain puckered bits and grimy stitches , for she knew that just there the little fingers trembled , and the blue eyes got dim as they touched and saw the delicate , flowery bits left from baby's gowns .
Lizzie was full of sympathy , and came hopping over on her crutches with her only treasure , a black rabbit , to console her friend .
But of all the comfort given , Mother Bunch's share was the greatest and best ; for that very first sad day , as Patty wandered about the house disconsolately , puss came hurrying to meet her , and in her dumb way begged her mistress to follow and see the fine surprise prepared for her -- four plump kits as white as snow , with four gray tails all wagging in a row , as they laid on their proud mamma's downy breast , while she purred over them , with her yellow eyes full of supreme content .
It was in the barn , and Patty lay for an hour with her head close to Mother Bunch , and her hands softly touching the charming little Bunches , who squeaked and tumbled and sprawled about with their dim eyes blinking , their tiny pink paws fumbling , and their dear gray tails waggling in the sweetest way .
Such a comfort as they were to Patty no words could tell , and nothing will ever convince me that Mrs. Bunch did not know all about baby , and so lay herself out to cheer up her little mistress like a motherly loving old puss , as she was .
As Patty lay on the rug that evening while Aunt Pen sung softly in the twilight , a small , white figure came pattering over the straw carpet , and dropped a soft , warm ball down by Patty's cheek , saying , as plainly as a loud , confiding purr could say it -- ` There , my dear , this is a lonely time for you , I know , so I've brought my best and prettiest darling to comfort you ; ' and with that Mother Bunch sat down and washed her face , while Patty cuddled little Snowdrop , and forgot to cry about baby .
Soon after this came a great happiness to Patty in the shape of a letter from mamma , saying she must have her little girl back a week earlier than they had planned .
` I 'm sorry to leave you , aunty , but it is so nice to be wanted , and I 'm all mamma has now , you know , so I must hurry and finish my work to surprise her with .
How shall we finish it off ?
There ought to be something regularly splendid to go all round , ' said Patty , in a great bustle , as she laid out her pieces , and found that only a few more were needed to complete the ` moral bed-quilt . ' '
I must try and find something .
We will put this white star , with the blue round it , in the middle , for it is the neatest and prettiest piece , in spite of the stains .
I will sew in this part , and you may finish putting the long strips together , ' said Aunt Pen , rummaging her bags and bundles for something fine to end off with . '
I know !
I've got something ! '
and away hurried Lizzie , who was there , and much interested in the work .
She came hopping back again , presently , with a roll in her hand , which she proudly spread out , saying -- ` There !
mother gave me that ever so long ago , but I never had any quilt to use it for , and now it's just what you want .
You can't buy such chintz now-a-days , and I 'm so glad I had it for you . '
` It's regularly splendid ! '
cried Patty , in a rapture ; and so it was , for the pink and white was all covered with animals , and the blue was full of birds and butterflies and bees flying about as naturally as possible .
Really lovely were the little figures and the clear , soft colours , and Aunt Pen clapped her hands , while Patty hugged her friend , and declared that the quilt was perfect now .
Mrs. Brown begged to be allowed to quilt it when the patches were all nicely put together , and Patty was glad to have her , for that part of the work was beyond her skill .
It did not come home till the morning Patty left , and Aunt Pen packed it up without ever unrolling it .
` We will look at it together when we show it to mamma , ' she said : and Patty was in such a hurry to be off that she made no objection .
A pleasant journey , a great deal of hugging and kissing , some tears and tender laments for baby , and then it was time to show the quilt , which mamma said was just what she wanted to throw over her feet as she lay on the sofa .
If there were any fairies , Patty would have been sure they had done something to her bed-cover , for when she proudly unrolled it , what do you think she saw ?
Right in the middle of the white star , which was the centre-piece , delicately drawn with indelible ink , was a smiling little cherub , all head and wings , and under it these lines -- ` While sister dear lies asleep , Baby careful watch will keep . '
Then in each of the four gay squares that were at the corners of the strip that framed the star , was a white bit bearing other pictures and couplets that both pleased and abashed Patty as she saw and read them .
In one was seen a remarkably fine bun , with the lines -- ` Who stole the hot bun And got burnt well ?
Go ask the lilac bush , Guess it can tell . '
In the next was a plump , tailless bird , who seemed to be saying mournfully -- ` My little tail , my little tail !
This bitter loss I still bewail ; But rather ne'er have tail again Than Patty should deceive Aunt Pen . '
The third was less embarrassing , for it was a pretty bunch of flowers so daintily drawn one could almost think they smelt them , and these lines were underneath -- ` Every flower to others given , Blossoms fair and sweet in heaven . '
The fourth was a picture of a curly-haired child sewing , with some very large tears rolling down her cheeks and tumbling off her lap like marbles , while some tiny sprites were catching and flying away with them as if they were very precious -- ` Every tender drop that fell , Loving spirits caught and kept ; And Patty's sorrows lighter grew , For the gentle tears she wept . '
` Oh , aunty !
what does it all mean ? '
cried Patty , who had looked both pleased and ashamed as she glanced from one picture to the other .
` It means , dear , that the goods and bads got into the bed-quilt in spite of you , and there they are to tell their own story .
The bun and the lost tail , the posy you took to poor Lizzie , and the trouble you bore so sweetly .
It is just so with our lives , though we don't see it quite as clearly as this .
Invisible hands paint our faults and virtues , and by-and-bye we have to see them , so we must be careful that they are good and lovely , and we are not ashamed to let the eyes that love us best read there the history of our lives . '
As Aunt Pen spoke , and Patty listened with a thoughtful face , mamma softly drew the pictured coverlet over her , and whispered , as she held her little daughter close -- ` My Patty will remember this ; and if all her years tell as good a story as this month , I shall not fear to read the record , and she will be in truth my little comforter . '

Sixty years ago , up among the New Hampshire hills , lived Farmer Bassett , with a house full of sturdy sons and daughters growing up about him .
They were poor in money , but rich in land and love , for the wide acres of wood , corn , and pasture land fed , warmed , and clothed the flock , while mutual patience , affection , and courage made the old farm-house a very happy home .
November had come ; the crops were in , and barn , buttery , and bin were overflowing with the harvest that rewarded the summer's hard work .
The big kitchen was a jolly place just now , for in the great fireplace roared a cheerful fire ; on the walls hung garlands of dried apples , onions , and corn ; up aloft from the beams shone crook-necked squashes , juicy hams , and dried venison -- for in those days deer still haunted the deep forests , and hunters flourished .
Savory smells were in the air ; on the crane hung steaming kettles , and down among the red embers copper sauce-pans simmered , all suggestive of some approaching feast .
A white-headed baby lay in the old blue cradle that had rocked seven other babies , now and then lifting his head to look out , like a round , full moon , then subsided to kick and crow contentedly , and suck the rosy apple he had no teeth to bite .
Two small boys sat on the wooden settle shelling corn for popping , and picking out the biggest nuts from the goodly store their own hands had gathered in October .
Four young girls stood at the long dresser , busily chopping meat , pounding spice , and slicing apples ; and the tongues of Tilly , Prue , Roxy , and Rhody went as fast as their hands .
Farmer Bassett , and Eph , the oldest boy , were `` chorin ' ` round '' outside , for Thanksgiving was at hand , and all must be in order for that time-honored day .
To and fro , from table to hearth , bustled buxom Mrs. Bassett , flushed and floury , but busy and blithe as the queen bee of this busy little hive should be .
`` I do like to begin seasonable and have things to my mind .
Thanksgivin ' dinners can't be drove , and it does take a sight of victuals to fill all these hungry stomicks , '' said the good woman , as she gave a vigorous stir to the great kettle of cider apple-sauce , and cast a glance of housewifely pride at the fine array of pies set forth on the buttery shelves .
`` Only one more day and then it will be time to eat .
I didn't take but one bowl of hasty pudding this morning , so I shall have plenty of room when the nice things come , '' confided Seth to Sol , as he cracked a large hazel-nut as easily as a squirrel .
`` No need of my starvin ' beforehand .
I always have room enough , and I 'd like to have Thanksgiving every day , '' answered Solomon , gloating like a young ogre over the little pig that lay near by , ready for roasting .
`` Sakes alive , I don't , boys !
It's a marcy it don't come but once a year .
I should be worn to a thread-paper with all this extra work atop of my winter weavin ' and spinnin ' , '' laughed their mother , as she plunged her plump arms into the long bread-trough and began to knead the dough as if a famine was at hand .
Tilly , the oldest girl , a red-cheeked , black-eyed lass of fourteen , was grinding briskly at the mortar , for spices were costly , and not a grain must be wasted .
Prue kept time with the chopper , and the twins sliced away at the apples till their little brown arms ached , for all knew how to work , and did so now with a will .
`` I think it's real fun to have Thanksgiving at home .
I 'm sorry Gran ` ma is sick , so we can't go there as usual , but I like to mess ` round here , don't you , girls ? ''
asked Tilly , pausing to take a sniff at the spicy pestle .
`` It will be kind of lonesome with only our own folks . ''
`` I like to see all the cousins and aunts , and have games , and sing , '' cried the twins , who were regular little romps , and could run , swim , coast and shout as well as their brothers .
`` I don't care a mite for all that .
It will be so nice to eat dinner together , warm and comfortable at home , '' said quiet Prue , who loved her own cozy nooks like a cat .
`` Come , girls , fly ` round and get your chores done , so we can clear away for dinner jest as soon as I clap my bread into the oven , '' called Mrs. Bassett presently , as she rounded off the last loaf of brown bread which was to feed the hungry mouths that seldom tasted any other .
`` Here's a man comin ' up the hill , lively ! ''
`` Guess it's Gad Hopkins .
Pa told him to bring a dezzen oranges , if they warn't too high ! ''
shouted Sol and Seth , running to the door , while the girls smacked their lips at the thought of this rare treat , and Baby threw his apple overboard , as if getting ready for a new cargo .
But all were doomed to disappointment , for it was not Gad , with the much-desired fruit .
It was a stranger , who threw himself off his horse and hurried up to Mr. Bassett in the yard , with some brief message that made the farmer drop his ax and look so sober that his wife guessed at once some bad news had come ; and crying , `` Mother's wuss !
I know she is ! ''
out ran the good woman , forgetful of the flour on her arms and the oven waiting for its most important batch .
The man said old Mr. Chadwick , down to Keene , stopped him as he passed , and told him to tell Mrs. Bassett her mother was failin ' fast , and she 'd better come to-day .
He knew no more , and having delivered his errand he rode away , saying it looked like snow and he must be jogging , or he wouldn't get home till night .
`` We must go right off , Eldad .
Hitch up , and I'll be ready in less 'n no time , '' said Mrs. Bassett , wasting not a minute in tears and lamentations , but pulling off her apron as she went in , with her mind in a sad jumble of bread , anxiety , turkey , sorrow , haste , and cider apple-sauce .
A few words told the story , and the children left their work to help her get ready , mingling their grief for `` Gran ` ma '' with regrets for the lost dinner .
`` I 'm dreadful sorry , dears , but it can't be helped .
I couldn't cook nor eat no way , now , and if that blessed woman gets better sudden , as she has before , we'll have cause for thanksgivin ' , and I'll give you a dinner you won't forget in a hurry , '' said Mrs. Bassett , as she tied on her brown silk pumpkin-hood , with a sob for the good old mother who had made it for her .
Not a child complained after that , but ran about helpfully , bringing moccasins , heating the footstone , and getting ready for a long drive , because Gran ` ma lived twenty miles away , and there were no railroads in those parts to whisk people to and fro like magic .
By the time the old yellow sleigh was at the door , the bread was in the oven , and Mrs. Bassett was waiting , with her camlet cloak on , and the baby done up like a small bale of blankets .
`` Now , Eph , you must look after the cattle like a man , and keep up the fires , for there's a storm brewin ' , and neither the children nor dumb critters must suffer , '' said Mr. Bassett , as he turned up the collar of his rough coat and put on his blue mittens , while the old mare shook her bells as if she preferred a trip to Keene to hauling wood all day .
`` Tilly , put extry comfortables on the beds to-night , the wind is so searchin ' up chamber .
Have the baked beans and Injun-puddin ' for dinner , and whatever you do , don't let the boys git at the mince-pies , or you'll have them down sick .
I shall come back the minute I can leave Mother .
Pa will come to-morrer , anyway , so keep snug and be good .
I depend on you , my darter ; use your jedgment , and don't let nothin ' happen while Mother's away . ''
`` Yes 'm , yes 'm -- good-bye , good-bye ! ''
called the children , as Mrs. Bassett was packed into the sleigh and driven away , leaving a stream of directions behind her .
Eph , the sixteen-year-old boy , immediately put on his biggest boots , assumed a sober , responsible manner , and surveyed his little responsibilities with a paternal air , drolly like his father's .
Tilly tied on her mother's bunch of keys , rolled up the sleeves of her homespun gown , and began to order about the younger girls .
They soon forgot poor Granny , and found it great fun to keep house all alone , for Mother seldom left home , but ruled her family in the good old-fashioned way .
There were no servants , for the little daughters were Mrs. Bassett's only maids , and the stout boys helped their father , all working happily together with no wages but love ; learning in the best manner the use of the heads and hands with which they were to make their own way in the world .
The few flakes that caused the farmer to predict bad weather soon increased to a regular snow-storm , with gusts of wind , for up among the hills winter came early and lingered long .
But the children were busy , gay , and warm in-doors , and never minded the rising gale nor the whirling white storm outside .
Tilly got them a good dinner , and when it was over the two elder girls went to their spinning , for in the kitchen stood the big and little wheels , and baskets of wool-rolls , ready to be twisted into yarn for the winter's knitting , and each day brought its stint of work to the daughters , who hoped to be as thrifty as their mother .
Eph kept up a glorious fire , and superintended the small boys , who popped corn and whittled boats on the hearth ; while Roxy and Rhody dressed corn-cob dolls in the settle corner , and Bose , the brindled mastiff , lay on the braided mat , luxuriously warming his old legs .
Thus employed , they made a pretty picture , these rosy boys and girls , in their homespun suits , with the rustic toys or tasks which most children nowadays would find very poor or tiresome .
Tilly and Prue sang , as they stepped to and fro , drawing out the smoothly twisted threads to the musical hum of the great spinning-wheels .
The little girls chattered like magpies over their dolls and the new bed-spread they were planning to make , all white dimity stars on a blue calico ground , as a Christmas present to Ma .
The boys roared at Eph's jokes , and had rough and tumble games over Bose , who didn't mind them in the least ; and so the afternoon wore pleasantly away .
At sunset the boys went out to feed the cattle , bring in heaps of wood , and lock up for the night , as the lonely farm-house seldom had visitors after dark .
The girls got the simple supper of brown bread and milk , baked apples , and a doughnut all ` round as a treat .
Then they sat before the fire , the sisters knitting , the brothers with books or games , for Eph loved reading , and Sol and Seth never failed to play a few games of Morris with barley corns , on the little board they had made themselves at one corner of the dresser .
`` Read out a piece , '' said Tilly , from Mother's chair , where she sat in state , finishing off the sixth woolen sock she had knit that month .
`` It's the old history book , but here's a bit you may like , since it's about our folks , '' answered Eph , turning the yellow page to look at a picture of two quaintly dressed children in some ancient castle .
`` Yes , read that .
I always like to hear about the Lady Matildy I was named for , and Lord Bassett , Pa's great-great-great-grandpa .
He's only a farmer now , but it's nice to know that we were somebody two or three hundred years ago , '' said Tilly , bridling and tossing her curly head as she fancied the Lady Matilda might have done .
`` Don't read the queer words , 'cause we don't understand 'em .
Tell it , '' commanded Roxy , from the cradle , where she was drowsily cuddled with Rhody .
`` Well , a long time ago , when Charles the First was in prison , Lord Bassett was a true friend to him , '' began Eph , plunging into his story without delay .
`` The lord had some papers that would have hung a lot of people if the king's enemies got hold of 'em , so when he heard one day , all of a sudden , that soldiers were at the castle-gate to carry him off , he had just time to call his girl to him , and say : ' I may be going to my death , but I won't betray my master .
There is no time to burn the papers , and I can not take them with me ; they are hidden in the old leathern chair where I sit .
No one knows this but you , and you must guard them till I come or send you a safe messenger to take them away .
Promise me to be brave and silent , and I can go without fear . '
You see , he wasn't afraid to die , but he was to seem a traitor .
Lady Matildy promised solemnly , and the words were hardly out of her mouth when the men came in , and her father was carried away a prisoner and sent off to the Tower .
`` But she didn't cry ; she just called her brother , and sat down in that chair , with her head leaning back on those papers , like a queen , and waited while the soldiers hunted the house over for 'em : wasn't that a smart girl ? ''
cried Tilly , beaming with pride , for she was named for this ancestress , and knew the story by heart .
`` I reckon she was scared , though , when the men came swearin ' in and asked her if she knew anything about it .
The boy did his part then , for he didn't know , and fired up and stood before his sister ; and he says , says he , as bold as a lion : ` If my lord had told us where the papers be , we would die before we would betray him .
But we are children and know nothing , and it is cowardly of you to try to fright us with oaths and drawn swords ! ' ''
As Eph quoted from the book , Seth planted himself before Tilly , with the long poker in his hand , saying , as he flourished it valiantly : `` Why didn't the boy take his father's sword and lay about him ?
I would , if any one was ha ` sh to Tilly . ''
`` You bantam !
He was only a bit of a boy , and couldn't do anything .
Sit down and hear the rest of it , '' commanded Tilly , with a pat on the yellow head , and a private resolve that Seth should have the largest piece of pie at dinner next day , as reward for his chivalry .
`` Well , the men went off after turning the castle out of window , but they said they should come again ; so faithful Matildy was full of trouble , and hardly dared to leave the room where the chair stood .
All day she sat there , and at night her sleep was so full of fear about it , that she often got up and went to see that all was safe .
The servants thought the fright had hurt her wits , and let her be , but Rupert , the boy , stood by her and never was afraid of her queer ways .
She was ' a pious maid , ' the book says , and often spent the long evenings reading the Bible , with her brother by her , all alone in the great room , with no one to help her bear her secret , and no good news of her father .
At last , word came that the king was dead and his friends banished out of England .
Then the poor children were in a sad plight , for they had no mother , and the servants all ran away , leaving only one faithful old man to help them . ''
`` But the father did come ? ''
cried Roxy , eagerly .
`` You'll see , '' continued Eph , half telling , half reading .
`` Matilda was sure he would , so she sat on in the big chair , guarding the papers , and no one could get her away , till one day a man came with her father's ring and told her to give up the secret .
She knew the ring , but would not tell until she had asked many questions , so as to be very sure , and while the man answered all about her father and the king , she looked at him sharply .
Then she stood up and said , in a tremble , for there was something strange about the man : ` Sir , I doubt you in spite of the ring , and I will not answer till you pull off the false beard you wear , that I may see your face and know if you are my father's friend or foe . '
Off came the disguise , and Matilda found it was my lord himself , come to take them with him out of England .
He was very proud of that faithful girl , I guess , for the old chair still stands in the castle , and the name keeps in the family , Pa says , even over here , where some of the Bassetts came along with the Pilgrims . ''
`` Our Tilly would have been as brave , I know , and she looks like the old picter down to Grandma's , don't she , Eph ? ''
cried Prue , who admired her bold , bright sister very much .
`` Well , I think you 'd do the settin ' part best , Prue , you are so patient .
Till would fight like a wild cat , but she can't hold her tongue worth a cent , '' answered Eph ; whereat Tilly pulled his hair , and the story ended with a general frolic .
When the moon-faced clock behind the door struck nine , Tilly tucked up the children under the `` extry comfortables , '' and having kissed them all around , as Mother did , crept into her own nest , never minding the little drifts of snow that sifted in upon her coverlet between the shingles of the roof , nor the storm that raged without .
As if he felt the need of unusual vigilance , old Bose lay down on the mat before the door , and pussy had the warm hearth all to herself .
If any late wanderer had looked in at midnight , he would have seen the fire blazing up again , and in the cheerful glow the old cat blinking her yellow eyes , as she sat bolt upright beside the spinning-wheel , like some sort of household goblin , guarding the children while they slept .
When they woke , like early birds , it still snowed , but up the little Bassetts jumped , broke the ice in their pitchers , and went down with cheeks glowing like winter apples , after a brisk scrub and scramble into their clothes .
Eph was off to the barn , and Tilly soon had a great kettle of mush ready , which , with milk warm from the cows , made a wholesome breakfast for the seven hearty children .
`` Now about dinner , '' said the young housekeeper , as the pewter spoons stopped clattering , and the earthen bowls stood empty .
`` Ma said , have what we liked , but she didn't expect us to have a real Thanksgiving dinner , because she won't be here to cook it , and we don't know how , '' began Prue , doubtfully .
`` I can roast a turkey and make a pudding as well as anybody , I guess .
The pies are all ready , and if we can't boil vegetables and so on , we don't deserve any dinner , '' cried Tilly , burning to distinguish herself , and bound to enjoy to the utmost her brief authority .
`` Yes , yes ! ''
cried all the boys , `` let's have a dinner anyway ; Ma won't care , and the good victuals will spoil if they ain't eaten right up . ''
`` Pa is coming to-night , so we won't have dinner till late ; that will be real genteel and give us plenty of time , '' added Tilly , suddenly realizing the novelty of the task she had undertaken .
`` Did you ever roast a turkey ? ''
asked Roxy , with an air of deep interest .
`` Should you darst to try ? ''
said Rhody , in an awe-stricken tone .
`` You will see what I can do .
Ma said I was to use my jedgment about things , and I 'm going to .
All you children have got to do is to keep out of the way , and let Prue and me work .
Eph , I wish you 'd put a fire in the best room , so the little ones can play in there .
We shall want the settin ' - room for the table , and I won't have 'em pickin ' ` round when we get things fixed , '' commanded Tilly , bound to make her short reign a brilliant one .
`` I don't know about that .
Ma didn't tell us to , '' began cautious Eph , who felt that this invasion of the sacred best parlor was a daring step .
`` Don't we always do it Sundays and Thanksgivings ?
Wouldn't Ma wish the children kept safe and warm anyhow ?
Can I get up a nice dinner with four rascals under my feet all the time ?
Come , now , if you want roast turkey and onions , plum-puddin ' and mince-pie , you'll have to do as I tell you , and be lively about it . ''
Tilly spoke with such spirit , and her last suggestion was so irresistible , that Eph gave in , and , laughing good-naturedly , tramped away to heat up the best room , devoutly hoping that nothing serious would happen to punish such audacity .
The young folks delightedly trooped in to destroy the order of that prim apartment with housekeeping under the black horse-hair sofa , `` horseback riders '' on the arms of the best rocking-chair , and an Indian war-dance all over the well-waxed furniture .
Eph , finding the society of the peaceful sheep and cows more to his mind than that of two excited sisters , lingered over his chores in the barn as long as possible , and left the girls in peace .
Now Tilly and Prue were in their glory , and as soon as the breakfast things were out of the way , they prepared for a grand cooking-time .
They were handy girls , though they had never heard of a cooking-school , never touched a piano , and knew nothing of embroidery beyond the samplers which hung framed in the parlor ; one ornamented with a pink mourner under a blue weeping-willow , the other with this pleasing verse , each word being done in a different color , which gave the effect of a distracted rainbow : `` This sampler neat was worked by me , In my twelfth year , Prudence B. '' Both rolled up their sleeves , put on their largest aprons , and got out all the spoons , dishes , pots , and pans they could find , `` so as to have everything handy , '' as Prue said .
`` Now , sister , we'll have dinner at five ; Pa will be here by that time if he is coming to-night , and be so surprised to find us all ready , for he won't have had any very nice victuals if Gran ` ma is so sick , '' said Tilly importantly .
`` I shall give the children a piece at noon '' Tilly meant luncheon ; `` doughnuts and cheese , with apple-pie and cider will please 'em .
There's beans for Eph ; he likes cold pork , so we won't stop to warm it up , for there's lots to do , and I don't mind saying to you I 'm dreadful dubersome about the turkey . ''
`` It's all ready but the stuffing , and roasting is as easy as can be .
I can baste first rate .
Ma always likes to have me , I 'm so patient and stiddy , she says , '' answered Prue , for the responsibility of this great undertaking did not rest upon her , so she took a cheerful view of things .
`` I know , but it's the stuffin ' that troubles me , '' said Tilly , rubbing her round elbows as she eyed the immense fowl laid out on a platter before her .
`` I don't know how much I want , nor what sort of yarbs to put in , and he's so awful big , I 'm kind of afraid of him . ''
`` I ain't !
I fed him all summer , and he never gobbled at me .
I feel real mean to be thinking of gobbling him , poor old chap , '' laughed Prue , patting her departed pet with an air of mingled affection and appetite .
`` Well , I'll get the puddin ' off my mind fust , for it ought to bile all day .
Put the big kettle on , and see that the spit is clean , while I get ready . ''
Prue obediently tugged away at the crane , with its black hooks , from which hung the iron tea-kettle and three-legged pot ; then she settled the long spit in the grooves made for it in the tall andirons , and put the dripping-pan underneath , for in those days meat was roasted as it should be , not baked in ovens .
Meantime Tilly attacked the plum-pudding .
She felt pretty sure of coming out right , here , for she had seen her mother do it so many times , it looked very easy .
So in went suet and fruit ; all sorts of spice , to be sure she got the right ones , and brandy instead of wine .
But she forgot both sugar and salt , and tied it in the cloth so tightly that it had no room to swell , so it would come out as heavy as lead and as hard as a cannon-ball , if the bag did not burst and spoil it all .
Happily unconscious of these mistakes , Tilly popped it into the pot , and proudly watched it bobbing about before she put the cover on and left it to its fate .
`` I can't remember what flavorin ' Ma puts in , '' she said , when she had got her bread well soaked for the stuffing .
`` Sage and onions and apple-sauce go with goose , but I can't feel sure of anything but pepper and salt for a turkey . ''
`` Ma puts in some kind of mint , I know , but I forget whether it is spearmint , peppermint , or penny-royal , '' answered Prue , in a tone of doubt , but trying to show her knowledge of `` yarbs , '' or , at least , of their names .
`` Seems to me it's sweet marjoram or summer savory .
I guess we'll put both in , and then we are sure to be right .
The best is up garret ; you run and get some , while I mash the bread , '' commanded Tilly , diving into the mess .
Away trotted Prue , but in her haste she got catnip and wormwood , for the garret was darkish , and Prue's little nose was so full of the smell of the onions she had been peeling , that everything smelt of them .
Eager to be of use , she pounded up the herbs and scattered the mixture with a liberal hand into the bowl .
`` It doesn't smell just right , but I suppose it will when it is cooked , '' said Tilly , as she filled the empty stomach , that seemed aching for food , and sewed it up with the blue yarn , which happened to be handy .
She forgot to tie down his legs and wings , but she set him by till his hour came , well satisfied with her work .
`` Shall we roast the little pig , too ?
I think he 'd look nice with a necklace of sausages , as Ma fixed one last Christmas , '' asked Prue , elated with their success .
`` I couldn't do it .
I loved that little pig , and cried when he was killed .
I should feel as if I was roasting the baby , '' answered Tilly , glancing toward the buttery where piggy hung , looking so pink and pretty it certainly did seem cruel to eat him .
It took a long time to get all the vegetables ready , for , as the cellar was full , the girls thought they would have every sort .
Eph helped , and by noon all was ready for cooking , and the cranberry-sauce , a good deal scorched , was cooling in the lean-to .
Luncheon was a lively meal , and doughnuts and cheese vanished in such quantities that Tilly feared no one would have an appetite for her sumptuous dinner .
The boys assured her they would be starving by five o'clock , and Sol mourned bitterly over the little pig that was not to be served up .
`` Now you all go and coast , while Prue and I set the table and get out the best chiny , '' said Tilly , bent on having her dinner look well , no matter what its other failings might be .
Out came the rough sleds , on went the round hoods , old hats , red cloaks , and moccasins , and away trudged the four younger Bassetts , to disport themselves in the snow , and try the ice down by the old mill , where the great wheel turned and splashed so merrily in the summer-time .
Eph took his fiddle and scraped away to his heart's content in the parlor , while the girls , after a short rest , set the table and made all ready to dish up the dinner when that exciting moment came .
It was not at all the sort of table we see now , but would look very plain and countrified to us , with its green-handled knives and two-pronged steel forks ; its red-and-white china , and pewter platters , scoured till they shone , with mugs and spoons to match , and a brown jug for the cider .
The cloth was coarse , but white as snow , and the little maids had seen the blue-eyed flax grow , out of which their mother wove the linen they had watched and watered while it bleached in the green meadow .
They had no napkins and little silver ; but the best tankard and Ma's few wedding spoons were set forth in state .
Nuts and apples at the corners gave an air , and the place of honor was left in the middle for the oranges yet to come .
`` Don't it look beautiful ? ''
said Prue , when they paused to admire the general effect .
`` Pretty nice , I think .
I wish Ma could see how well we can do it , '' began Tilly , when a loud howling startled both girls , and sent them flying to the window .
The short afternoon had passed so quickly that twilight had come before they knew it , and now , as they looked out through the gathering dusk , they saw four small black figures tearing up the road , to come bursting in , all screaming at once : `` The bear , the bear !
Eph , get the gun !
He's coming , he's coming ! ''
Eph had dropped his fiddle , and got down his gun before the girls could calm the children enough to tell their story , which they did in a somewhat incoherent manner .
`` Down in the holler , coastin ' , we heard a growl , '' began Sol , with his eyes as big as saucers .
`` I see him fust lookin ' over the wall , '' roared Seth , eager to get his share of honor .
`` Awful big and shaggy , '' quavered Roxy , clinging to Tilly , while Rhody hid in Prue's skirts , and piped out : `` His great paws kept clawing at us , and I was so scared my legs would hardly go . ''
`` We ran away as fast as we could go , and he come growling after us .
He's awful hungry , and he'll eat every one of us if he gets in , '' continued Sol , looking about him for a safe retreat .
`` Oh , Eph , don't let him eat us , '' cried both little girls , flying up stairs to hide under their mother's bed , as their surest shelter .
`` No danger of that , you little geese .
I'll shoot him as soon as he comes .
Get out of the way , boys , '' and Eph raised the window to get good aim .
`` There he is !
Fire away , and don't miss ! ''
cried Seth , hastily following Sol , who had climbed to the top of the dresser as a good perch from which to view the approaching fray .
Prue retired to the hearth as if bent on dying at her post rather than desert the turkey , now `` browning beautiful , '' as she expressed it .
But Tilly boldly stood at the open window , ready to lend a hand if the enemy proved too much for Eph .
All had seen bears , but none had ever come so near before , and even brave Eph felt that the big brown beast slowly trotting up the door-yard was an unusually formidable specimen .
He was growling horribly , and stopped now and then as if to rest and shake himself .
`` Get the ax , Tilly , and if I should miss , stand ready to keep him off while I load again , '' said Eph , anxious to kill his first bear in style and alone ; a girl's help didn't count .
Tilly flew for the ax , and was at her brother's side by the time the bear was near enough to be dangerous .
He stood on his hind legs , and seemed to sniff with relish the savory odors that poured out of the window .
`` Fire , Eph ! ''
cried Tilly , firmly .
`` Wait till he rears again .
I'll get a better shot , then , '' answered the boy , while Prue covered her ears to shut out the bang , and the small boys cheered from their dusty refuge up among the pumpkins .
But a very singular thing happened next , and all who saw it stood amazed , for suddenly Tilly threw down the ax , flung open the door , and ran straight into the arms of the bear , who stood erect to receive her , while his growlings changed to a loud `` Haw , haw ! ''
that startled the children more than the report of a gun .
`` It's Gad Hopkins , tryin ' to fool us ! ''
cried Eph , much disgusted at the loss of his prey , for these hardy boys loved to hunt , and prided themselves on the number of wild animals and birds they could shoot in a year .
`` Oh , Gad , how could you scare us so ? ''
laughed Tilly , still held fast in one shaggy arm of the bear , while the other drew a dozen oranges from some deep pocket in the buffalo-skin coat , and fired them into the kitchen with such good aim that Eph ducked , Prue screamed , and Sol and Seth came down much quicker than they went up .
`` Wal , you see I got upsot over yonder , and the old horse went home while I was floundering in a drift , so I tied on the buffalers to tote 'em easy , and come along till I see the children playin ' in the holler .
I jest meant to give 'em a little scare , but they run like partridges , and I kep ' up the joke to see how Eph would like this sort of company , '' and Gad haw-hawed again .
`` You 'd have had a warm welcome if we hadn't found you out .
I 'd have put a bullet through you in a jiffy , old chap , '' said Eph , coming out to shake hands with the young giant , who was only a year or two older than himself .
`` Come in and set up to dinner with us .
Prue and I have done it all ourselves , and Pa will be along soon , I reckon , '' cried Tilly , trying to escape .
`` Couldn't , no ways .
My folks will think I 'm dead ef I don't get along home , sence the horse and sleigh have gone ahead empty .
I've done my arrant and had my joke ; now I want my pay , Tilly , '' and Gad took a hearty kiss from the rosy cheeks of his `` little sweetheart , '' as he called her .
His own cheeks tingled with the smart slap she gave him as she ran away , calling out that she hated bears and would bring her ax next time .
`` I ain't afeared ; your sharp eyes found me out ; and ef you run into a bear's arms you must expect a hug , '' answered Gad , as he pushed back the robe and settled his fur cap more becomingly .
`` I should have known you in a minute if I hadn't been asleep when the girls squalled .
You did it well , though , and I advise you not to try it again in a hurry , or you'll get shot , '' said Eph , as they parted , he rather crestfallen and Gad in high glee .
`` My sakes alive -- the turkey is burnt one side , and the kettles have biled over so the pies I put to warm are all ashes ! ''
scolded Tilly , as the flurry subsided and she remembered her dinner .
`` Well , I can't help it .
I couldn't think of victuals when I expected to be eaten alive myself , could I ? ''
pleaded poor Prue , who had tumbled into the cradle when the rain of oranges began .
Tilly laughed , and all the rest joined in , so good humor was restored , and the spirits of the younger ones were revived by sucks from the one orange which passed from hand to hand with great rapidity , while the older girls dished up the dinner .
They were just struggling to get the pudding out of the cloth when Roxy called out , `` Here's Pa ! ''
`` There's folks with him , '' added Rhody .
`` Lots of 'em !
I see two big sleighs chock full , '' shouted Seth , peering through the dusk .
`` It looks like a semintary .
Guess Gramma's dead and come up to be buried here , '' said Sol in a solemn tone .
This startling suggestion made Tilly , Prue , and Eph hasten to look out , full of dismay at such an ending of their festival .
`` If that is a funeral , the mourners are uncommon jolly , '' said Eph , drily , as merry voices and loud laughter broke the white silence without .
`` I see Aunt Cinthy , and Cousin Hetty -- and there's Mose and Amos .
I do declare , Pa's bringin ' 'em all home to have some fun here , '' cried Prue , as she recognized one familiar face after another .
`` Oh , my patience !
Ain't I glad I got dinner , and don't I hope it will turn out good ! ''
exclaimed Tilly , while the twins pranced with delight , and the small boys roared : `` Hooray for Pa !
Hooray for Thanksgivin ' ! ''
The cheer was answered heartily , and in came Father , Mother , Baby , aunts and cousins , all in great spirits , and all much surprised to find such a festive welcome awaiting them .
`` Ain't Gran ` ma dead at all ? ''
asked Sol , in the midst of the kissing and hand-shaking .
`` Bless your heart , no !
It was all a mistake of old Mr. Chadwick's .
He's as deaf as an adder , and when Mrs. Brooks told him Mother was mendin ' fast , and she wanted me to come down to-day , certain sure , he got the message all wrong , and give it to the fust person passin ' in such a way as to scare me ` most to death , and send us down in a hurry .
Mother was sittin ' up as chirk as you please , and dreadful sorry you didn't all come . ''
`` So , to keep the house quiet for her , and give you a taste of the fun , your Pa fetched us all up to spend the evenin ' , and we are goin ' to have a jolly time on't , to jedge by the looks of things , '' said Aunt Cinthy , briskly finishing the tale when Mrs. Bassett paused for want of breath .
`` What in the world put it into your head we was comin ' , and set you to gettin ' up such a supper ? ''
asked Mr. Bassett , looking about him , well pleased and much surprised at the plentiful table .
Tilly modestly began to tell , but the others broke in and sang her praises in a sort of chorus , in which bears , pigs , pies , and oranges were oddly mixed .
Great satisfaction was expressed by all , and Tilly and Prue were so elated by the commendation of Ma and the aunts , that they set forth their dinner , sure everything was perfect .
But when the eating began , which it did the moment wraps were off , then their pride got a fall ; for the first person who tasted the stuffing , it was big Cousin Mose , and that made it harder to bear , nearly choked over the bitter morsel .
`` Tilly Bassett , whatever made you put wormwood and catnip in your stuffin ' ? ''
demanded Ma , trying not to be severe , for all the rest were laughing , and Tilly looked ready to cry .
`` I did it , '' said Prue , nobly taking all the blame , which caused Pa to kiss her on the spot , and declare that it didn't do a might of harm , for the turkey was all right .
`` I never see onions cooked better .
All the vegetables is well done , and the dinner a credit to you , my dears , '' declared Aunt Cinthy , with her mouth full of the fragrant vegetable she praised .
The pudding was an utter failure , in spite of the blazing brandy in which it lay -- as hard and heavy as one of the stone balls on Squire Dunkin's great gate .
It was speedily whisked out of sight , and all fell upon the pies , which were perfect .
But Tilly and Prue were much depressed , and didn't recover their spirits till the dinner was over and the evening fun well under way .
`` Blind-man's buff , '' `` Hunt the slipper , '' `` Come , Philander , '' and other lively games soon set every one bubbling over with jollity , and when Eph struck up `` Money Musk '' on his fiddle , old and young fell into their places for a dance .
All down the long kitchen they stood , Mr. and Mrs. Bassett at the top , the twins at the bottom , and then away they went , heeling and toeing , cutting pigeon-wings , and taking their steps in a way that would convulse modern children with their new-fangled romps called dancing .
Mose and Tilly covered themselves with glory by the vigor with which they kept it up , till fat Aunt Cinthy fell into a chair , breathlessly declaring that a very little of such exercise was enough for a woman of her `` heft . ''
Apples and cider , chat and singing , finished the evening , and after a grand kissing all round , the guests drove away in the clear moonlight which came just in time to cheer their long drive .
When the jingle of the last bell had died away , Mr. Bassett said soberly , as they stood together on the hearth : `` Children , we have special cause to be thankful that the sorrow we expected was changed into joy , so we'll read a chapter ` fore we go to bed , and give thanks where thanks is due . ''
Then Tilly set out the light-stand with the big Bible on it , and a candle on each side , and all sat quietly in the fire-light , smiling as they listened with happy hearts to the sweet old words that fit all times and seasons so beautifully .
When the good-nights were over , and the children in bed , Prue put her arm around Tilly and whispered tenderly , for she felt her shake , and was sure she was crying : `` Don't mind about the old stuffin ' and puddin ' , deary -- nobody cared , and Ma said we really did do surprisin ' well for such young girls . ''
The laughter Tilly was trying to smother broke out then , and was so infectious , Prue could not help joining her , even before she knew the cause of the merriment .
`` I was mad about the mistakes , but don't care enough to cry .
I 'm laughing to think how Gad fooled Eph and I found him out .
I thought Mose and Amos would have died over it when I told them , it was so funny , '' explained Tilly , when she got her breath .
`` I was so scared that when the first orange hit me , I thought it was a bullet , and scrabbled into the cradle as fast as I could .
It was real mean to frighten the little ones so , '' laughed Prue , as Tilly gave a growl .
Here a smart rap on the wall of the next room caused a sudden lull in the fun , and Mrs. Bassett's voice was heard , saying warningly , `` Girls , go to sleep immediate , or you'll wake the baby . ''
`` Yes 'm , '' answered two meek voices , and after a few irrepressible giggles , silence reigned , broken only by an occasional snore from the boys , or the soft scurry of mice in the buttery , taking their part in this old-fashioned Thanksgiving .

It was a small room , with nothing in it but a bed , two chairs , and a big chest .
A few little gowns hung on the wall , and the only picture was the wintry sky , sparkling with stars , framed by the uncurtained window .
But the moon , pausing to peep , saw something pretty and heard something pleasant .
Two heads in little round nightcaps lay on one pillow , two pairs of wide-awake blue eyes stared up at the light , and two tongues were going like mill clappers .
`` I 'm so glad we got our shirts done in time !
It seemed as if we never should , and I don't think six cents is half enough for a great red flannel thing with four button-holes -- do you ? ''
said one little voice , rather wearily .
`` No ; but then we each made four , and fifty cents is a good deal of money .
Are you sorry we didn't keep our quarters for ourselves ? ''
asked the other voice , with an under-tone of regret in it .
`` Yes , I am , till I think how pleased the children will be with our tree , for they don't expect anything , and will be so surprised .
I wish we had more toys to put on it , for it looks so small and mean with only three or four things . ''
`` It won't hold any more , so I wouldn't worry about it .
The toys are very red and yellow , and I guess the babies won't know how cheap they are , but like them as much as if they cost heaps of money . ''
This was a cheery voice , and as it spoke the four blue eyes turned toward the chest under the window , and the kind moon did her best to light up the tiny tree standing there .
A very pitiful little tree it was -- only a branch of hemlock in an old flower-pot , propped up with bits of coal , and hung with a few penny toys earned by the patient fingers of the elder sisters , that the little ones should not be disappointed .
But in spite of the magical moonlight the broken branch , with its scanty supply of fruit , looked pathetically poor , and one pair of eyes filled slowly with tears , while the other pair lost their happy look , as if a cloud had come over the sunshine .
`` Are you crying , Dolly ? ''
`` Not much , Polly . ''
`` What makes you , dear ? ''
`` I didn't know how poor we were till I saw the tree , and then I couldn't help it , '' sobbed the elder sister , for at twelve she already knew something of the cares of poverty , and missed the happiness that seemed to vanish out of all their lives when father died .
`` It's dreadful !
I never thought we 'd have to earn our tree , and only be able to get a broken branch , after all , with nothing on it but three sticks of candy , two squeaking dogs , a red cow , and an ugly bird with one feather in its tail ; '' and overcome by a sudden sense of destitution , Polly sobbed even more despairingly than Dolly .
`` Hush , dear ; we must cry softly , or mother will hear , and come up , and then we shall have to tell .
You know we said we wouldn't seem to mind not having any Christmas , she felt so sorry about it . ''
`` I must cry , but I'll be quiet . ''
So the two heads went under the pillow for a few minutes , and not a sound betrayed them as the little sisters cried softly in one another's arms , lest mother should discover that they were no longer careless children , but brave young creatures trying to bear their share of the burden cheerfully .
When the shower was over , the faces came out shining like roses after rain , and the voices went on again as before .
`` Don't you wish there really was a Santa Claus , who knew what we wanted , and would come and put two silver half-dollars in our stockings , so we could go and see Puss in Boots at the Museum to-morrow afternoon ? ''
`` Yes , indeed ; but we didn't hang up any stockings , you know , because mother had nothing to put in them .
It does seem as if rich people might think of poor people now and then .
Such little bits of things would make us happy , and it couldn't be much trouble to take two small girls to the play , and give them candy now and then . '' ''
I shall when I 'm rich , like Mr. Chrome and Miss Kent .
I shall go round every Christmas with a big basket of goodies , and give all the poor children some . ''
`` Perhaps if we sew ever so many flannel shirts we may be rich by-and-by .
I should give mother a new bonnet first of all , for I heard Miss Kent say no lady would wear such a shabby one .
Mrs. Smith said fine bonnets didn't make real ladies .
I like her best , but I do want a locket like Miss Kent's . ''
`` I should give mother some new rubbers , and then I should buy a white apron , with frills like Miss Kent's , and bring home nice bunches of grapes and good things to eat , as Mr. Chrome does .
I often smell them , but he never gives me any ; he only says , ` Hullo , chick ! '
and I 'd rather have oranges any time . ''
`` It will take us a long while to get rich , I 'm afraid .
It makes me tired to think of it .
I guess we 'd better go to sleep now , dear . ''
`` Good-night , Dolly . ''
`` Good-night , Polly . ''
Two soft kisses were heard , a nestling sound followed , and presently the little sisters lay fast asleep cheek against cheek , on the pillow wet with their tears , never dreaming what was going to happen to them to-morrow .
Now Miss Kent's room was next to theirs , and as she sat sewing she could hear the children's talk , for they soon forgot to whisper .
At first she smiled , then she looked sober , and when the prattle ceased she said to herself , as she glanced about her pleasant chamber : `` Poor little things !
they think I 'm rich , and envy me , when I 'm only a milliner earning my living .
I ought to have taken more notice of them , for their mother has a hard time , I fancy , but never complains .
I 'm sorry they heard what I said , and if I knew how to do it without offending her , I 'd trim a nice bonnet for a Christmas gift , for she is a lady , in spite of her old clothes .
I can give the children some of the things they want anyhow , and I will .
The idea of those mites making a fortune out of shirts at six cents apiece ! ''
Miss Kent laughed at the innocent delusion , but sympathized with her little neighbors , for she knew all about hard times .
She had good wages now , but spent them on herself , and liked to be fine rather than neat .
Still , she was a good-hearted girl , and what she had overheard set her to thinking soberly , then to acting kindly , as we shall see .
`` If I hadn't spent all my money on my dress for the party to-morrow night , I 'd give each of them a half-dollar .
As I can not , I'll hunt up the other things they wanted , for it's a shame they shouldn't have a bit of Christmas , when they tried so hard to please the little ones . ''
As she spoke she stirred about her room , and soon had a white apron , an old carnelian heart on a fresh blue ribbon , and two papers of bonbons ready .
As no stockings were hung up , she laid a clean towel on the floor before the door , and spread forth the small gifts to look their best .
Miss Kent was so busy that she did not hear a step come quietly up stairs , and Mr. Chrome , the artist , peeped at her through the balusters , wondering what she was about .
He soon saw , and watched her with pleasure , thinking that she never looked prettier than now .
Presently she caught him at it , and hastened to explain , telling what she had heard , and how she was trying to atone for her past neglect of these young neighbors .
Then she said good-night , and both went into their rooms , she to sleep happily , and he to smoke as usual .
But his eye kept turning to some of the `` nice little bundles '' that lay on his table , as if the story he had heard suggested how he might follow Miss Kent's example .
I rather think he would not have disturbed himself if he had not heard the story told in such a soft voice , with a pair of bright eyes full of pity looking into his , for little girls were not particularly interesting to him , and he was usually too tired to notice the industrious creatures toiling up and down stairs on various errands , or sewing at the long red seams .
Now that he knew something of their small troubles , he felt as if it would please Miss Kent , and be a good joke , to do his share of the pretty work she had begun .
So presently he jumped up , and , opening his parcels , took out two oranges and two bunches of grapes , then he looked up two silver half-dollars , and stealing into the hall , laid the fruit upon the towel , and the money atop of the oranges .
This addition improved the display very much , and Mr. Chrome was stealing back , well pleased , when his eye fell on Miss Kent's door , and he said to himself , `` She too shall have a little surprise , for she is a dear , kind-hearted soul . ''
In his room was a prettily painted plate , and this he filled with green and purple grapes , tucked a sentimental note underneath , and leaving it on her threshold , crept away as stealthily as a burglar .
The house was very quiet when Mrs. Smith , the landlady , came up to turn off the gas .
`` Well , upon my word , here's fine doings , to be sure ! ''
she said , when she saw the state of the upper hall .
`` Now I wouldn't have thought it of Miss Kent , she is such a giddy girl , nor of Mr. Chrome , he is so busy with his own affairs .
I meant to give those children each a cake to-morrow , they are such good little things .
I'll run down and get them now , as my contribution to this fine set out . ''
Away trotted Mrs. Smith to her pantry , and picked out a couple of tempting cakes , shaped like hearts and full of plums .
There was a goodly array of pies on the shelves , and she took two of them , saying , as she climbed the stairs again , `` They remembered the children , so I'll remember them , and have my share of the fun . ''
So up went the pies , for Mrs. Smith had not much to give , and her spirit was generous , though her pastry was not of the best .
It looked very droll to see pies sitting about on the thresholds of closed doors , but the cakes were quite elegant , and filled up the corners of the towel handsomely , for the apron lay in the middle , with the oranges right and left , like two sentinels in yellow uniforms .
It was very late when the flicker of a candle came up stairs , and a pale lady , with a sweet sad face , appeared , bringing a pair of red and a pair of blue mittens for her Dolly and Polly .
Poor Mrs. Blake did have a hard time , for she stood all day in a great store that she might earn bread for the poor children who staid at home and took care of one another .
Her heart was very heavy that night , because it was the first Christmas she had ever known without gifts and festivity of some sort .
But Petkin , the youngest child , had been ill , times were very hard , the little mouths gaped for food like the bills of hungry birds , and there was no tender mate to help fill them .
If any elves had been hovering about the dingy hall just then , they would have seen the mother's tired face brighten beautifully when she discovered the gifts , and found that her little girls had been so kindly remembered .
Something more brilliant than the mock diamonds in Miss Kent's best earrings fell and glittered on the dusty floor as Mrs. Blake added the mittens to the other things , and went to her lonely room again , smiling as she thought how she could thank them all in a sweet and simple way .
Her windows were full of flowers , for the delicate tastes of the poor lady found great comfort in their beauty .
`` I have nothing else to give , and these will show how grateful I am , '' she said , as she rejoiced that the scarlet geraniums were so full of gay clusters , the white chrysanthemum stars were all out , and the pink roses at their loveliest .
They slept now , dreaming of a sunny morrow as they sat safely sheltered from the bitter cold .
But that night was their last , for a gentle hand cut them all , and soon three pretty nosegays stood in a glass , waiting for dawn , to be laid at three doors , with a few grateful words which would surprise and delight the receivers , for flowers were rare in those hard-working lives , and kind deeds often come back to the givers in fairer shapes than they go .
Now one would think that there had been gifts enough , and no more could possibly arrive , since all had added his or her mite except Betsey , the maid , who was off on a holiday , and the babies fast asleep in their trundle-bed , with nothing to give but love and kisses .
Nobody dreamed that the old cat would take it into her head that her kittens were in danger , because Mrs. Smith had said she thought they were nearly old enough to be given away .
But she must have understood , for when all was dark and still , the anxious mother went patting up stairs to the children's door , meaning to hide her babies under their bed , sure they would save them from destruction .
Mrs. Blake had shut the door , however , so poor Puss was disappointed ; but finding a soft , clean spot among a variety of curious articles , she laid her kits there , and kept them warm all night , with her head pillowed on the blue mittens .
In the cold morning Dolly and Polly got up and scrambled into their clothes , not with joyful haste to see what their stockings held , for they had none , but because they had the little ones to dress while mother got the breakfast .
Dolly opened the door , and started back with a cry of astonishment at the lovely spectacle before her .
The other people had taken in their gifts , so nothing destroyed the magnificent effect of the treasures so curiously collected in the night .
Puss had left her kits asleep , and gone down to get her own breakfast , and there , in the middle of the ruffled apron , as if in a dainty cradle , lay the two Maltese darlings , with white bibs and boots on , and white tips to the tiny tails curled round their little noses in the sweetest way .
Polly and Dolly could only clasp their hands and look in rapturous silence for a minute ; then they went down on their knees and revelled in the unexpected richness before them .
`` I do believe there is a Santa Claus , and that he heard us , for here is everything we wanted , '' said Dolly , holding the carnelian heart in one hand and the plummy one in the other .
`` It must have been some kind of a fairy , for we didn't mention kittens , but we wanted one , and here are two darlings , '' cried Polly , almost purring with delight as the downy bunches unrolled and gaped till their bits of pink tongues were visible .
`` Mrs. Smith was one fairy , I guess , and Miss Kent was another , for that is her apron .
I shouldn't wonder if Mr. Chrome gave us the oranges and the money : men always have lots , and his name is on this bit of paper , '' said Dolly .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad !
Now we shall have a Christmas like other people , and I'll never say again that rich folks don't remember poor folks .
Come and show all our treasures to mother and the babies ; they must have some , '' answered Polly , feeling that the world was all right , and life not half as hard as she thought it last night .
Shrieks of delight greeted the sisters , and all that morning there was joy and feasting in Mrs. Blake's room , and in the afternoon Dolly and Polly went to the Museum , and actually saw Puss in Boots ; for their mother insisted on their going , having discovered how the hard-earned quarters had been spent .
This was such unhoped-for bliss that they could hardly believe it , and kept smiling at one another so brightly that people wondered who the happy little girls in shabby cloaks could be who clapped their new mittens so heartily , and laughed till it was better than music to hear them .
This was a very remarkable Christmas-day , and they long remembered it ; for while they were absorbed in the fortunes of the Marquis of Carabas and the funny cat , who tucked his tail in his belt , washed his face so awkwardly , and didn't know how to purr , strange things were happening at home , and more surprises were in store for our little friends .
You see , when people once begin to do kindnesses , it is so easy and pleasant they find it hard to leave off ; and sometimes it beautifies them so that they find they love one another very much -- as Mr. Chrome and Miss Kent did , though we have nothing to do with that except to tell how they made the poor little tree grow and blossom .
They were very jolly at dinner , and talked a good deal about the Blakes , who ate in their own rooms .
Miss Kent told what the children said , and it touched the soft spot in all their hearts to hear about the red shirts , though they laughed at Polly's lament over the bird with only one feather in its tail .
`` I 'd give them a better tree if I had any place to put it , and knew how to trim it up , '' said Mr. Chrome , with a sudden burst of generosity , which so pleased Miss Kent that her eyes shone like Christmas candles .
`` Put it in the back parlor .
All the Browns are away for a week , and we'll help you trim it -- won't we , my dear ? ''
cried Mrs. Smith , warmly ; for she saw that he was in a sociable mood , and thought it a pity that the Blakes should not profit by it .
`` Yes , indeed ; I should like it of all things , and it needn't cost much , for I have some skill in trimmings , as you know . ''
And Miss Kent looked so gay and pretty as she spoke that Mr. Chrome made up his mind that millinery must be a delightful occupation .
`` Come on then , ladies , and we'll have a little frolic .
I 'm a lonely old bachelor , with nowhere to go to-day , and I 'd like some fun . ''
They had it , I assure you ; for they all fell to work as busy as bees , flying and buzzing about with much laughter as they worked their pleasant miracle .
Mr. Chrome acted more like the father of a large family than a crusty bachelor , Miss Kent's skillful fingers flew as they never did before , and Mrs. Smith trotted up and down as briskly as if she were sixteen instead of being a stout old woman of sixty .
The children were so full of the play , and telling all about it , that they forgot their tree till after supper ; but when they went to look for it they found it gone , and in its place a great paper hand with one finger pointing down stairs , and on it these mysterious words in red ink : `` Look in the Browns ' back parlor ! ''
At the door of that interesting apartment they found their mother with Will and Petkin , for another hand had suddenly appeared to them pointing up .
The door flew open quite as if it were a fairy play , and they went in to find a pretty tree planted in a red box on the centre table , lighted with candles , hung with gilded nuts , red apples , gay bonbons , and a gift for each .
Mr. Chrome was hidden behind one folding-door , and fat Mrs. Smith squeezed behind the other , and they both thought it a great improvement upon the old-fashioned Santa Claus to have Miss Kent , in the white dress she made for the party , with Mrs. Blake's roses in her hair , step forward as the children gazed in silent rapture , and with a few sweet words welcome them to the little surprise their friends had made .
There were many Christmas trees in the city that night , but none which gave such hearty pleasure as the one which so magically took the place of the broken branch and its few poor toys .
They were all there , however , and Dolly and Polly were immensely pleased to see that of all her gifts Petkin chose the forlorn bird to carry to bed with her , the one yellow feather being just to her taste .
Mrs. Blake put on her neat bonnet , and was so gratified that Miss Kent thought it the most successful one she ever trimmed .
She was well paid for it by the thanks of one neighbor and the admiration of another ; for when she went to her party Mr. Chrome went with her , and said something on the way which made her heart dance more lightly than her feet that night .
Good Mrs. Smith felt that her house had covered itself with glory by this event , and Dolly and Polly declared that it was the most perfect and delightful surprise party ever seen .
It was all over by nine o'clock , and with good-night kisses for every one the little girls climbed up to bed laden with treasures and too happy for many words .
But as they tied their round caps Dolly said , thoughtfully : `` On the whole , I think it's rather nice to be poor when people are kind to you . ''
`` Well , I 'd rather be rich ; but if I can't be , it is very good fun to have Christmas trees like this one , '' answered truthful Polly , never guessing that they had planted the seed from which the little pine-tree grew so quickly and beautifully .
When the moon came to look in at the window on her nightly round , two smiling faces lay on the pillow , which was no longer wet with tears , but rather knobby with the mine of riches hidden underneath , -- first fruits of the neighborly friendship which flourished in that house until another and a merrier Christmas came .

Mr. Plum lived in St. Paul , Minnesota , U.S.A. .
There were six little Plums , all girls , varying in ages from fourteen to seven , and named Kate , Lucy , Susy , Lizzy , Marjory and Maggie .
There was no mamma , but Mrs. Gibbs , the housekeeper , was a kind old soul , and papa did everything he could to make the small daughters good and happy .
One stormy Saturday afternoon the children were all together in the school-room , and papa busy at his desk in the library , with the door open because he liked to hear the pleasant voices and catch glimpses of the droll plays that went on there .
Kate lay on the sofa reading `` The Daisy Chain '' for the fourth time .
Susy , Lucy and Lizzie were having a select tea party in their own recess , the entrance to which was barricaded with chairs to keep out the `` babies , '' as they called the little ones , who were much offended at being excluded and sat up in the cushioned window-seat pensively watching the rain .
`` If it had only waited till to-morrow we should have had time for our journey ; now we can't go till next Saturday .
Flora is so disappointed she would cry if I had not taught her to behave , '' said Maggie with a sigh , as she surveyed the doll on her knee in its new summer suit .
`` So is Dora .
Just see how sweet she looks with her hat and cape on and her travelling-bag all ready .
Couldn't we play travel in the house ?
It is such a pity to wait when the children are in such a hurry to go , '' answered Marjory , settling the tiny bag that held Dora's nightcap and gown as well as the morsels of cake that were to serve for her lunch .
`` No , '' said Maggie decidedly , `` we can't do it , because there is no room for carriages , and boats , and railroads , and hotels , and accidents .
It is a long journey from Minnesota to Maine , and we couldn't get it all into one room I 'm sure . ''
`` I don't think papa would mind our coming into the library , if we didn't ring the car bells very loud or scream much when the accidents happen , '' said Marjory , who hated to give up the plan they had been cherishing all the week .
`` What is it , little ones ?
Come and tell me what is the matter , '' called Mr. Plum , hearing his name and the magic word `` railroad , '' for he was the president of one and had his hands full just then .
Down jumped the little girls and ran to perch on either arm of his chair , pouring out their small tribulations as freely as if he had been the most sympathizing of mothers .
`` We planned to take a long , long journey round the garden with our dolls to-day , and play go to Maine and see Aunt Maria .
You know she asked us , and we looked out the way on the map and got all ready , and now it rains and we are dreadfully disappointed , '' said Maggie , while Marjory sighed as she looked at the red D. worked on the inch square travelling-bag .
`` As you can't go , why not send the dolls to make aunty a visit , and she will send them back when they get homesick , '' proposed Mr. Plum , smiling , as if a sudden idea had popped into his head .
`` Really ? ''
cried Maggie .
`` How could we ? ''
asked Marjory .
`` They could go and come by mail , and tell you all about their adventures when they got back , '' said papa .
Both children were speechless for a moment , then as the full splendor of this proposition dawned upon them they clapped their hands , crying eagerly : `` We will !
we will !
Let's do it at once . ''
`` What ?
where ?
who ? ''
asked Susy , Lucy and Lizzie , forgetting their tea party to run and see what was going on .
They were told , and in their turn exclaimed so loudly that Kate came to join in the fun .
After a great deal of talking and laughing , the dolls were prepared for the long journey .
They were common wooden-headed dollies , a hand long , with stuffed bodies and stout legs ornamented with very small feet in red and blue boots .
Dora was a blonde and Flora a brunette , otherwise they were just alike and nearly new .
Usually when people go travelling they put on their hats and cloaks , but these pilgrims , by papa's advice , left all encumbrances behind them , for they were to travel in a peculiar way , and blue gingham dresses were chosen for the expedition .
`` It is possible that they may never come back .
Accidents will happen you know .
Are you prepared for that ? ''
asked Mr. Plum , pausing with the brown paper spread out before him .
`` I am , '' answered Maggie firmly , as she laid Flora on the table , her black eyes staring as if rather alarmed at this sudden start .
Marjory hesitated a moment , clasping Dora to her bosom with a face full of maternal anxiety .
But Susy , Lucy and Lizzie cried : `` Let her go , do let her go , and if she is lost papa will give you a new doll . ''
`` Good-by , my darling dear .
Have a splendid time , and be sure you come back to me , '' whispered Marjory , with a tender farewell kiss as she gave up her child .
All stood watching silently while papa tied the dolls back to back with the ribbon Kate pulled from her neck , then folded them carefully in strong brown paper , leaving their heads out that they might see the world as they went along .
Being carefully fastened up with several turns of cord , Mr. Plum directed the precious parcel to `` Miss Maria Plum , Portland , Maine .
With care . ''
Then it was weighed , stamped , and pronounced ready for the post .
`` I shall write and tell aunty they are coming , because she will want to be prepared for such distinguished visitors , '' said papa , taking up his pen with a glance at the six excited little faces round him .
Silence reigned while the letter was written , and as he sealed it up Mr. Plum said solemnly , with his hand on the parcel : `` For the last time , shall they go ? ''
`` Yes ! ''
answered the Spartan mothers with one voice , while the other sisters danced round them , and Kate patted the curly heads approvingly .
`` Going , going , gone ! ''
answered papa as he whisked on his coat and hat , and slammed the door behind him .
The children clustered at the window to see him set out on this momentous errand , and he often looked back waving his umbrella at them , till he vanished round the corner , with a reassuring pat on the pocket out of which dear Do and Flo popped their heads for a last look at their sweet home .
`` Now let us take out poor old Lucinda and Rose Augusta to play with .
I know their feelings were hurt at our leaving them for the new dolls , '' said Maggie , rummaging in the baby-house , whither Margery soon followed her to reinstate the old darlings in the place of the departed new ones .
`` Safely off , '' reported Mr. Plum , when he came into tea , `` and we may expect to hear from them in a week or two .
Parcels go more slowly than letters , and this is Aunty's busy season , so wait patiently and see what will happen . ''
`` We will , '' said the little girls ; and they did , but week after week went by and nothing was heard of the wanderers .
We , however , can follow them and learn much that their anxious mothers never knew .
As soon as Flora and Dora recovered from the bewilderment occasioned by the confusion of the post office , they found themselves in one of the many leathern mail bags rumbling Eastward .
As it was perfectly dark they could not see their companions , so listened to the whispering and rustling that went on about them .
The newspapers all talked politics , and some of them used such bad language that the dolls would have covered their ears , if their hands had not been tied down .
The letters were better behaved and more interesting , for they told one another the news they carried , because nothing is private in America , and even gummed envelopes can not keep gossip from leaking out .
`` It is very interesting , but I should enjoy it more if I was not grinding my nose against the rough side of this leather bag , '' whispered Dora , who lay undermost just then .
`` So should I , if a heavy book was not pinching my toes .
I've tried to kick it away , but it won't stir , and keeps droning on about reports and tariffs and such dull things , '' answered Flora , with a groan .
`` Do you like travelling ? ''
asked Dora , presently , when the letters and papers fell asleep , lulled by the motion of the cars .
`` Not yet , but I shall when I can look about me .
This bundle near by says the mails are often sorted in the cars , and in that way we shall see something of the world , I hope , '' answered Flora , cheering up , for , like her mamma , she was of an enquiring turn .
The dolls took a nap of some hours , and were roused by a general tumbling out on a long shelf , where many other parcels lay , and lively men sent letters and papers flying here and there as if a whirlwind was blowing .
A long box lay beside the dolls who stood nearly erect leaning against a pile of papers .
Several holes were cut in the lid , and out of one of them was thrust a little black nose , as if trying to get air .
`` Dear me !
what can be in it ? ''
said Flora , who was nearest .
`` I 'm a poor little alligator , going to a boy in Chicago , if you please , and I want my mother , '' sobbed a voice from the box , and there was a rap on the lid as of an agitated tail .
`` Mercy on us !
I hope we shall not have to travel with the monster , '' whispered Dora , trying to see over her shoulder .
`` I 'm not afraid .
He can't be very dreadful , for the box is not any longer than we are .
Natural history is very useful ; I've heard mamma say so , and I shall talk with him while we rest here , '' answered Flo , nodding toward the eye which now took the place of the nose .
So the little alligator told her something of his home on the banks of a great river , where he was just learning to play happily with his brothers and sisters , when he was caught and sent away to pine in captivity .
The dolls comforted him as well as they could , and a pair of baby's shoes travelling in an envelope sympathized with him , while a shabby bundle directed to `` Michael Dolan , at Mrs. Judy Quin's , next door to Mr. Pat Murphy , Boston , North street , '' told them to `` Whisht and slape quite till they came forninst the place . ''
`` Such low people ! ''
whispered Do to Flo , and both stood primly silent till they were tumbled into another mail bag , and went rattling on again with a new set of companions .
`` I hope that poor baby will go safely and the boy be good to him , '' said Flora , for the little alligator went with the live stock in some other way .
`` Thank goodness he didn't go with us !
I shall dream about that black nose and winking eye , I 'm sure .
The dangers of travelling are great , but we are safe and comfortable now , I think , '' and Dora settled down in a cozy corner of the bag , wondering when they should reach Chicago .
`` I like adventures and hope we shall have some , '' answered Flora , briskly , little dreaming how soon her wish was to be granted .
A few hours later there come a bump , a crash , a cry , and then all the mail bags rolled one over the other with the car down an embankment into a river .
`` Now we are dead ! ''
shrieked the poor dolls , clinging together as they heard the splash of water , the shouting of men , the splintering of wood , and the hiss of steam .
`` Don't be frightened , ladies , mail bags are always looked after , '' said a large envelope with an official seal and the name of a Senator on it .
`` Any bones broken , dear madam ? ''
asked a jaunty pink letter , with a scent of musk about it , evidently a love-letter .
`` I think one foot is hurt , and my clothes are dripping , '' sighed Dora , faintly .
`` Water won't hurt calico , '' called out a magazine full of fashion plates , adding dolefully , as its gay colors began to run , `` I shall be in a nice mess if I ever get out of this .
People will wear odd fashions if they follow me this time . ''
`` Hope they will telegraph news of this accident in time for the evening papers , '' said a dingy sheet called the `` Barahoo Thunderbolt , '' as it lay atop of the heap in its yellow wrapper .
`` Be calm , my friends , and wait with fortitude for death or deliverance , as I do . ''
With which philosophic remark `` The St. Louis Cosmos '' folded the pages which for the first time since the paper was started , were not dry .
Here the water rose over the topmost letter and a moist silence prevailed till a sudden jerk fished up the bag , and before the dolls could recover their wits they were spread out on the floor of a mail car to dry , while several busy men sorted and saved such papers and letters as still held together .
`` Now we shall see something , '' said Flora , feeling the warm air blow over her as they spun along , for a slight accident like this did not delay the energetic Westerners a moment longer than absolutely necessary .
`` I can't see you , dear , but I hope you look better than I do , for the yellow of my hair has washed into my eyes and the red of my cheeks is quite gone , I 'm sure , '' answered Dora , as her wet dress flopped in the breeze and the broken foot sticking up showed her that her blue boots were ruined .
`` I don't care a bit how I look .
It's great fun now we are safe .
Pop up your head and see the wide prairie flying past .
I do hope that poor baby got away and swam home to his mother .
The upset into the river was quite to his taste , I fancy , '' said Flora , who was much excited by her adventure and eager for more .
Presently one of the men set the dolls up in the corner of a window to dry , and there they stood viewing the fine landscape with one eye while the other watched the scene of devastation within .
Everything was in great confusion after the accident , so it is not strange that the dolls were not missed when they slowly slid lower and lower till a sudden lurch of the car sent them out of the window to roll into a green field where cows were feeding and children picking strawberries .
`` This is the end of us !
Here we shall lie and mould forgotten by everybody , '' said Dora , who always took a tragical view of things .
`` Not a bit of it !
I see cows eating toward us and they may give us a lift .
I've heard of their tossing people up , though I don't know just how it's done .
If they don't , we are in the path and some of those children are sure to find us , '' answered Flora cheerfully , though she stood on her head with a bunch of burrs pricking her nose .
She was right .
A bright-eyed little German girl presently came trotting along the path with a great basket full of berries on her head arranged in pretty pottles ready for the market .
Seeing the red cow sniffing at a brown paper parcel she drove her away , picked it up and peeped in at the open end .
The sight of two dolls in such a place made her feel as if fairies had dropped them there for her .
She could not read the direction and hurried home to show her treasure to her brothers and sisters of whom there were eight .
`` What will become of us now ! ''
exclaimed Dora , as eager hands slipped them out of the wrapper and smoothed their damp skirts in a room that seemed swarming with boys and girls of all sizes .
`` Don't worry , we shall get on nicely , I 'm sure , and learn German of these young persons .
It is a great relief to be able to stretch one's limbs and stand up , isn't it ? ''
answered Flora , undismayed by anything that had happened as yet .
`` Yes , dear , I love you but I am tired of being tied to you all day .
I hope we shall live through this noise and get a little rest , but I give up the idea of ever seeing Portland , '' answered Dora , staring with all her blue eyes at the display of musical instruments about the room , and longing to stop her ears , for several of the children were playing on the violin , flute , horn or harp .
They were street musicians , and even the baby seemed to be getting ready to take part in the concert , for he sat on the floor beside an immense bass horn taller than himself , with his rosy lips at the mouth piece and his cheeks puffed out in vain attempts to make a `` boom !
boom ! ''
as brother Fritz did .
Flora was delighted , and gave skips on her red boots in time to the lively tooting of the boys , while the girls gazed at the lovely dolls and jabbered away with their yellow braids quivering with excitement .
The wrapper was laid aside till a neighbor who read English came in to translate it .
Meantime they enjoyed the new toys immensely , and even despondent Dora was cheered up by the admiration she received ; while they in their turn were deeply interested in the pretty dolls ' furniture some of the children made .
Beds , tables and chairs covered the long bench , and round it sat the neat-handed little maidens gluing , tacking and trimming , while they sang and chatted at their work as busy and happy as a hive of bees .
All day the boys went about the streets playing , and in the evening trooped off to the beer gardens to play again , for they lived in Chicago , and the dolls had got so far on their way to Aunt Maria , as they soon discovered .
For nearly two months they lived happily with Minna , Gretchen and Nanerl , then they set out on their travels again , and this was the way it happened .
A little girl came to order a set of furniture for her new baby-house , and seeing two shabby dolls reposing in a fine bed she asked about them .
Her mamma spoke German so Minna told how they were found , and showed the old wrapper , saying that they always meant to send the dolls on their way but grew so fond of them they kept putting it off .
`` I am going as far as New York very soon and will take them along if you like , for I think little Miss Maria Plum must have been expecting her dolls all this time .
Shall I ? ''
asked the mamma , as she read the address and saw the dash under `` With care , '' as if the dollies were of great importance to some one .
`` Ja , ja , '' answered Minna , glad to oblige a lady who bought two whole sets of their best furniture and paid for it at once .
So again the dolls were put in their brown paper cover and sent away with farewell kisses .
`` This now is genteel and just suits me , '' said Dora , as they drove along with little Clara to the handsome house where she was staying .
`` I have a feeling that she is a spoilt child , and we shall not be as happy with her as with the dear Poppleheimers .
We shall see , '' answered Flora , wisely , for Clara had soon tossed the dolls into a corner and was fretting because mamma would not buy her the big horn to blow on .
The party started for New York in a day or two , and to the delight of Flo and Do they were left out of the trunks for Clara to play with on the way , her own waxen Blanche Marie Annabel being too delicate to be used .
`` Oh my patience , this is worse than tumbling about in a mail-bag , '' groaned Dora , after hours of great suffering , for Clara treated the poor dolls as if they had no feeling .
She amused herself with knocking their heads together , shutting them in the window with their poor legs hanging out , swinging them by one arm , and drawing lines with a pencil all over their faces till they looked as if tattooed by savages .
Even brave Flora was worn out and longed for rest , finding her only comfort in saying , `` I told you so , '' when Clara banged them about , or dropped them on the dusty floor to be trampled on by passing feet .
There they were left , and would have been swept away if a little dog had not found them as the passengers were leaving the car and carried them after his master , trotting soberly along with the bundle in his mouth , for fortunately Clara had put them into the paper before she left them , so they were still together in the trials of the journey .
`` Hullo , Jip , what have you got ? ''
asked the young man as the little dog jumped up on the carriage seat and laid his load on his master's knee , panting and wagging his tail as if he had done something to be praised for .
`` Dolls , I declare !
What can a bachelor do with the poor things ?
Wonder who Maria Plum is ?
Midge will like a look at them before we send them along ; '' and into the young man's pocket they went , trembling with fear of the dog , but very grateful for being rescued from destruction .
Jip kept his eye on them , and gave an occasional poke with his cold nose to be sure they were there as they drove through the bustling streets of New York to a great house with an inscription over the door .
`` I do hope Midge will be a nicer girl than Clara .
Children ought to be taught to be kind to dumb dolls as well as dumb animals , '' said Dora , as the young man ran up the steps and hurried along a wide hall .
`` I almost wish we were at home with our own kind little mothers , '' began Flo , for even her spirits were depressed by bad treatment , but just then a door opened and she cried out in amazement , `` Bless my heart , this man has more children than even Mr. Poppleheimer ! ''
She might well think so , for all down both sides of the long room stood little white beds with a small pale face on every pillow .
All the eyes that were open brightened when Jip and his master came in , and several thin hands were outstretched to meet them .
`` I've been good , Doctor , let me pat him first , '' cried one childish voice .
`` Did you bring me a flower , please ? ''
asked another feeble one .
`` I know he's got something nice for us , I see a bundle in his pocket , '' and a little fellow who sat up among his pillows gave a joyful cough as he could not shout .
`` Two dollies for Midge to play with .
Jip found them , but I think the little girl they are going to will lend them for a few days .
We shall not need them longer I 'm afraid , '' added the young man to a rosy faced nurse who came along with a bottle in her hand .
`` Dear no , the poor child is very low to-day .
But she will love to look at the babies if she isn't strong enough to hold 'em , '' said the woman , leading the way to a corner where the palest of all the pale faces lay smiling on the pillow , and the thinnest of the thin hands were feebly put up to greet the Doctor .
`` So nice ! ''
she whispered when the dolls were laid beside her , while Jip proudly beat his tail on the floor to let her know that she owed the welcome gift to him .
For an hour Flo and Do lay on the arm of poor Midge who never moved except to touch them now and then with a tender little finger , or to kiss them softly , saying , `` Dear babies , it is very nice not to be all alone .
Are you comfy , darlings ? ''
till she fell asleep still smiling .
`` Sister , do you think this can be the Heaven we hear people talk about ?
It is so still and white , and may be these children are angels , '' whispered Dora , looking at the sweet face turned toward her with the long lashes lying on the colorless cheek , and the arms outstretched like wings .
`` No , dear , it is a hospital , I heard that man say so , and those are sick children come to be cured .
It is a sweet place , I think , and this child much nicer than that horrid Clara , '' answered Flo , who was quicker to hear , see and understand what went on than Dora .
`` I love to lie here safe and warm , but there doesn't seem to be much breath to rock me , '' said Do , who lay nearest the little bosom that very slowly rose and fell with the feeble flutter of the heart below .
`` Hush , we may disturb her , '' and lively Flo controlled her curiosity , contenting herself with looking at the other children and listening to their quiet voices , for pain seemed to have hushed them all .
For a week the dolls lay in Midge's bed , and though their breasts were full of saw-dust and their heads were only wood , the sweet patience of the little creature seemed to waken something like a heart in them , and set them thinking , for dolls don't live in vain , I am firmly persuaded .
All day she tended them till the small hands could no longer hold them , and through the weary nights she tried to murmur bits of lullabies lest the dollies would not be able to sleep because of the crying or the moans some of the poor babies could not repress .
She often sent one or the other to cheer up some little neighbor , and in this way Do and Flo became small sisters of charity , welcomed eagerly , reluctantly returned , and loved by all , although they never uttered a word and their dingy faces could not express the emotion that stirred their saw-dust bosoms .
When Saturday night came they were laid in their usual place on Midge's arm .
She was too weak to kiss them now , and nurse laid their battered cheeks against the lips that whispered faintly , `` Be sure you send 'em to the little girl , and tell her -- tell her -- all about it . ''
Then she turned her cheek to the pillow with a little sigh and lay so still the dolls thought she had gone to sleep .
She had , but the sweet eyes did not open in the morning , and there was no breath in the little breast to rock the dolls any more .
`` I knew she was an angel , and now she has flown away , '' said Dora softly , as they watched the white image carried out in the weeping nurse's arms , with the early sunshine turning all the pretty hair to gold .
`` I think that is what they call dying , sister .
It is a much lovelier way to end than as we do in the dust bin or rag-bag .
I wonder if there is a little Heaven anywhere for good dolls ? ''
answered Flora , with what looked like a tear on her cheek ; but it was only a drop from the violets sent by the kind Doctor last night .
`` I hope so , for I think the souls of little children might miss us if they loved us as dear Midge did , '' whispered Dora , trying to kiss the blue flower in her hand , for the child had shared her last gift with these friends .
`` Why didn't you let her take them along , poor motherless baby ? ''
asked the doctor when he saw the dolls lying as she had left them .
`` I promised her they should go to the girl they were sent to , and please , I 'd like to keep my word to the little darling , '' answered Nurse with a sob .
`` You shall , '' said the Doctor , and put them in his breast pocket with the faded violets , for everybody loved the pauper child sent to die in a hospital , because Christian charity makes every man and woman father and mother to these little ones .
All day the dolls went about in the busy Doctor's pocket , and I think the violets did them good , for the soft perfume clung to them long afterward like the memory of a lovely life , as short and sweet as that of the flowers .
In the evening they were folded up in a fresh paper and re-directed carefully .
The Doctor wrote a little note telling why he had kept them , and was just about to put on some stamps when a friend came in who was going to Boston in the morning .
`` Anything to take along , Fred ? ''
asked the newcomer .
`` This parcel , if you will .
I have a feeling that I 'd rather not have it knock about in a mail-bag , '' and the Doctor told him why .
It was pleasant to see how carefully the traveller put away the parcel after that , and to hear him say that he was going through Boston to the mountains for his holiday , and would deliver it in Portland to Miss Plum herself .
`` Now there is some chance of our getting there , '' said Flora , as they set off next day in a new Russia leather bag .
On the way they overheard a long chat between some New York and Boston ladies which impressed them very much .
Flora liked to hear the fashionable gossip about clothes and people and art and theatres , but Dora preferred the learned conversation of the young Boston ladies , who seemed to know a little of everything , or think they did .
`` I hope Mamma will give me an entirely new wardrobe when I get home ; and we will have dolls ' weddings and balls , and a play , and be as fine and fashionable as those ladies down there , '' said Flora , after listening a while .
`` You have got your head full of dressy ideas and high life , sister .
I don't care for such things , but mean to cultivate my mind as fast as I can .
That girl says she is in college , and named over more studies than I can count .
I do wish we were to stop and see a little of the refined society of Boston , '' answered Dora , primly .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Flo , `` don't you try to be intellectual , for you are only a wooden-headed doll .
I mean to be a real Westerner , and just enjoy myself as I please , without caring what other folks do or think .
Boston is no better than the rest of the world , I guess . ''
Groans from every article in the bag greeted this disrespectful speech , and an avalanche of Boston papers fell upon the audacious doll .
But Flo was undaunted , and shouted from underneath the pile : `` I don't care !
Minnesota forever ! ''
till her breath gave out .
Dora was so mortified that she never said a word till they were let out in a room at the Parker House .
Here she admired everything , and read all the evening in a volume of Emerson's Poems from the bag , for Mr. Mt. Vernon Beacon was a Boston man , and never went anywhere without a wise book or two in his pocket .
Flo turned up her nose at all she saw , and devoted herself to a long chat with the smart bag which came from New York and was full of gossip .
The next afternoon they really got to Portland , and as soon as Mr. Beacon had made his toilet he set out to find little Miss Plum .
When the parlor door opened to admit her he was much embarrassed , for , advancing with a paternal smile and the dolls extended to the expected child , he found himself face to face with a pretty young lady , who looked as if she thought him a little mad .
A few words explained the errand , however , and when she read the note Aunt Maria's bright eyes were full of tears as she said , hugging the dilapidated dolls : `` I'll write the story of their travels , and send the dear old things back to the children as soon as possible . ''
And so she did with Mr. Beacon's help , for he decided to try the air of Portland , and spent his vacation there .
The dolls were re-painted and re-dressed till they were more beautiful than ever , and their clothes fine enough to suit even Flo .
They were a good while doing this , and when all was ready , Aunt Maria took it into her head to run out to St. Paul and surprise the children .
By a singular coincidence Mr. Beacon had railroad business in that direction , so they set off together , with two splendid dolls done up in a gay box .
All that was ever known about that journey was that these travellers stopped at the hospital in New York , and went on better friends than before after hearing from the good Doctor all the pathetic story of little Midge .
The young Plums had long ago given up the hope of ever seeing Do and Flo again , for they started in June and it was early in September when Aunt Maria appeared before them without the least warning , accompanied by a pleasant gentleman from Boston .
Six kisses had hardly resounded from Aunty's blooming cheeks when a most attractive box was produced from the Russia leather bag , and the wandering dolls restored to the arms of their enraptured mammas .
A small volume neatly written and adorned with a few pictures of the most exciting incidents of the trip also appeared .
`` Every one writes or prints a book in Boston , you know , so we did both , '' said Aunt Maria , laughing , as she handed over the remarkable history which she had composed and Mr. Beacon illustrated .
It was read with intense interest , and was as true as most stories are nowadays .
`` Nothing more delightful can happen now ! ''
exclaimed the children , as they laid by the precious work and enthroned the travelled dolls in the place of honor on the roof of the baby-house .
But something much more delightful did happen ; for at Thanksgiving time there was a wedding at the Plums ' .
Not a doll's wedding , as Flo had planned , but a real one , for the gentleman from Boston actually married Aunt Maria .
There were six bridesmaids , all in blue , and Flora and Dora , in the loveliest of new pink gowns , were set aloft among the roses on the wedding-cake , their proper place as everyone said , for there never would have been any marriage at all but for this Doll's Journey From Minnesota to Maine .
VI .
MORNING-GLORIES .
`` What's that ? ''
-- and Daisy sat up in her little bed to listen ; for she had never heard a sound like it before .
It was very early , and the house was still .
The sun was just rising , and the morning-glories at the window were turning their blue and purple cups to catch the welcome light .
The sky was full of rosy clouds ; dew shone like diamonds on the waving grass , and the birds were singing as they only sing at dawn .
But softer , sweeter than any bird-voice was the delicate music which Daisy heard .
So airy and gay was the sound , it seemed impossible to lie still with that fairy dancing-tune echoing through the room .
Out of bed scrambled Daisy , her sleepy eyes opening wider and wider with surprise and pleasure as she listened and wondered .
`` Where is it ? ''
she said , popping her head out of the window .
The morning-glories only danced lightly on their stems , the robins chirped shrilly in the garden below , and the wind gave Daisy a kiss ; but none of them answered her , and still the lovely music sounded close beside her .
`` It's a new kind of bird , perhaps ; or maybe it's a fairy hidden somewhere .
Oh , if it is how splendid it will be ! ''
cried Daisy ; and she began to look carefully in all the colored cups , under the leaves of the woodbine , and in the wren's nest close by .
There was neither fairy nor bird to be seen ; and Daisy stood wondering , when a voice cried out from below : `` Why , little nightcap , what brings you out of your bed so early ? ''
`` O Aunt Wee !
do you hear it -- that pretty music playing somewhere near !
I can't find it ; but I think it's a fairy , don't you ? ''
said Daisy , looking down at the young lady standing in the garden with her hands full of roses .
Aunt Wee listened , smiled , and shook her head .
`` Don't you remember you said last night that you thought the world a very stupid , grown-up place , because there were no giants and fairies in it now ?
Well , perhaps there are fairies , and they are going to show themselves to you , if you watch well . ''
Daisy clapped her hands , and danced about on her little bare feet ; for , of all things in the world , she most wanted to see a fairy .
`` What must I do to find them , Aunt Wee ? ''
she cried , popping out her head again with her cap half off , and her curly hair blowing in the wind .
`` Why , you see , they frolic all night , and go to sleep at dawn ; so we must get up very early , if we want to catch the elves awake .
They are such delicate , fly-away little things , and we are so big and clumsy , we shall have to look carefully , and perhaps hunt a long time before we find even one , '' replied Aunt Wee , very gravely .
`` Mamma says I 'm quick at finding things ; and you know all about fairies , so I guess we'll catch one .
Can't we begin now ?
It's very early , and this music has waked me up ; so I don't want to sleep any more .
Will you begin to hunt now ? ''
`` But you don't like to get up early , or to walk in the fields ; and , if we mean to catch a fairy , we must be up and out by sunrise every fair morning till we get one .
Can you do this , lazy Daisy ? ''
And Aunt Wee smiled to herself as if something pleased her very much .
`` Oh !
I will , truly , get up , and not fret a bit , if you'll only help me look .
Please come now to dress me , and see if you can find what makes the music . ''
Daisy was very much in earnest , and in such a hurry to be off that she could hardly stand still to have her hair brushed , and thought there were a great many unnecessary buttons and strings on her clothes that day .
Usually she lay late , got up slowly and fretted at every thing as little girls are apt to do when they have had too much sleep .
She wasn't a rosy , stout Daisy ; but had been ill , and had fallen into a way of thinking she couldn't do anything but lie about , reading fairy-tales , and being petted by every one .
Mamma and papa had tried all sorts of things to amuse and do her good ; for she was their only little daughter , and they loved her very dearly .
But nothing pleased her long ; and she lounged about , pale and fretful , till Aunt Laura came .
Daisy called her `` Wee '' when she was a baby , and couldn't talk plainly ; and she still used the name because it suited the cheery little aunt so well .
`` I don't see anything , and the music has stopped .
I think some elf just came to wake you up , and then flew away ; so we won't waste any more time in looking here , '' said Wee , as she finished dressing Daisy , who flew about like a Will-o ' - the-wisp all the while .
`` Do you think it will come again to-morrow ? ''
asked Daisy anxiously .
`` I dare say you'll hear it , if you wake in time .
Now get your hat , and we will see what we can find down by the brook .
I saw a great many fireflies there last night , and fancy there was a ball ; so we may find some drowsy elf among the buttercups and clover . ''
Away rushed Daisy for her hat , and soon was walking gayly down the green lane , looking about her as if she had never been there before ; for every thing seemed wonderfully fresh and lovely .
`` How pink the clouds are , and how the dew twinkles in the grass !
I never saw it so before , '' she said .
`` Because by the time you are up the pretty pink clouds are gone , and the thirsty grass has drank the dew , or the sun has drawn it up to fall again at night for the flowers ' evening bath , '' replied Wee , watching the soft color that began to touch Daisy's pale cheeks .
`` I think we 'd better look under that cobweb spread like a tent over the white clovers .
A fairy would be very likely to creep in there and sleep . ''
Daisy knelt down and peeped carefully ; but all she saw was a little brown spider , who looked very much surprised to see visitors so early .
`` I don't like spiders , '' said Daisy , much disappointed .
`` There are things about spiders as interesting to hear as fairy tales , '' said Wee .
`` This is Mrs. Epeira Diadema ; and she is a respectable , industrious little neighbor .
She spreads her tent , but sits under a leaf near by , waiting for her breakfast .
She wraps her eggs in a soft silken bag , and hides them in some safe chink , where they lie till spring .
The eggs are prettily carved and ornamented , and so hard that the baby spiders have to force their way out by biting the shell open and poking their little heads through .
The mother dies as soon as her eggs are safely placed , and the spiderlings have to take care of themselves . ''
`` How do you know about it , Aunt Wee ?
You talk as if Mrs. Eppyra -- or whatever her name is -- had told you herself .
Did she ? ''
asked Daisy , feeling more interested in the brown spider .
`` No ; I read it in a book , and saw pictures of the eggs , web , and family .
I had a live one in a bottle ; and she spun silken ladders all up and down , and a little room to sleep in .
She ate worms and bugs , and was very amiable and interesting till she fell ill and died . ''
`` I should like to see the book ; and have a spider-bottle , so I could take care of the poor little orphans when they are born .
Good-by , ma'am .
I shall call again ; for you are ` most as good as a fairy there in your pretty tent , with a white clover for your bed . ''
Daisy walked on a few steps , and then stopped to say : `` What does that bird mean by calling ` Hurry up , hurry up ? '
He keeps flying before us , and looking back as if he wanted to show me something . ''
`` Let me hear what he says .
I may be able to understand him , or the bob-o-link that swings on the alder by the brook . ''
Wee listened a moment , while the birds twittered and chirped with all their hearts .
Presently Wee sang in a tone very like the bob-o-link's : `` Daisy and Wee , Come here , and see What a dainty feast is spread : Down in the grass Where fairies pass , Here are berries ripe and red .
`` All wet with dew , They wait for you : Come hither , and eat your fill , While I gayly sing , In my airy swing , And the sun climbs up the hill . ''
`` Did he really say that ? ''
cried Daisy , watching the bob-o-link , who sat swaying up and down on the green bough , and nodding his white-capped head at her in the most friendly manner .
`` Perhaps I didn't translate it rightly ; for it is very hard to put bird-notes into our language , because we haven't words soft and sweet enough .
But I really think there are berries over there , and we will see if what he says is true , '' said Wee .
Over the wall they went , and there , on a sunny bank , found a bed of the reddest , ripest berries ever seen .
`` Thank you , thank you , for telling me to hurry up , and showing me such a splendid feast , '' said Daisy , with her mouth full , as she nodded back at the birds .
`` These are so much sweeter than those we buy .
I 'd carry some home to mamma , if I only had a basket . ''
`` You can pick this great leaf full , while I make you a basket , '' said Wee .
Daisy soon filled the leaf , and then sat watching her aunt plait a pretty basket of rushes .
While she waited she looked about , and kept finding something curious or pleasant to interest and amuse her .
First she saw a tiny rainbow in a dewdrop that hung on a blade of grass ; then she watched a frisky calf come down to drink on the other side of the brook , and laughed to see him scamper away with his tail in the air .
Close by grew a pitcher-plant ; and a yellow butterfly sat on the edge , bathing its feet , Daisy said .
Presently she discovered a little ground bird sitting on her nest , and peeping anxiously , as if undecided whether to fly away or trust her .
`` I won't hurt you , little mother .
Don't be afraid , '' whispered the child ; and , as if it understood , the bird settled down on her nest with a comfortable chirp , while its mate hopped up to give her a nice plump worm for breakfast .
`` I love birds .
Tell me something about them , Aunt Wee .
You must know many things ; for they like you , and come when you call . ''
`` Once upon a time , '' began Wee , while her fingers flew and the pretty basket grew , `` there was a great snow-storm , and all the country was covered with a thick white quilt .
It froze a little , so one could walk over it , and I went out for a run .
Oh , so cold it was , with a sharp wind , and no sun or any thing green to make it pleasant !
I went far away over the fields , and sat down to rest .
While I sat there , a little bird came by , and stopped to rest also . ''
` How do you do ? '
said I. '' ` Chick-a-dee-dee , ' said he . '' '
A cold day , ' said I. '' ` Chick-a-dee-dee , ' said he . ''
` Aren't you afraid of starving , now the ground is covered and the trees are bare ? ' ''
` Chick-a-dee-dee , ma'am , chick-a-dee-dee ! ' ''
answered the bird in the same cheerful tone .
And it sounded as if he said , ' I shall be cared for .
I 'm not afraid . ' ''
` What will you eat ?
There's nothing here or for miles round .
I really think you'll starve , birdie , ' said I. `` Then he laughed , and gave me a merry look as he lit on a tall , dry weed near by .
He shook it hard with his little bill ; when down fell a shower of seeds , and there was dinner all ready on a snow-white cloth .
All the while he ate he kept looking up at me with his quick , bright eyes ; and , when he had done , he said , as plainly as a bird could say it : '' ` Cold winds may blow , And snows may fall , But well we know God cares for all . ' ''
`` I like that little story , and shall always think of it when I hear the chick-a-dee-dee . ''
Daisy sat a moment with a thoughtful look in her eyes ; then she said slowly , as if sorry for the words : `` It isn't a stupid , grown-up world .
It's a very pleasant , young world ; and I like it a great deal better this morning than I did last night . ''
`` I 'm glad of that ; and , even if we don't find our fairy to-day , you will have found some sunshine , Daisy , and that is almost as good .
Now put in the berries , and we'll go on . ''
How they hunted !
They climbed trees to peep into squirrel-holes and birds ' - nests ; they chased bees and butterflies to ask for news of the elves ; they waded in the brook , hoping to catch a water-sprite ; they ran after thistle-down , fancying a fairy might be astride ; they searched the flowers and ferns , questioned sun and wind , listened to robin and thrush ; but no one could tell them any thing of the little people , though all had gay and charming bits of news about themselves .
And Daisy thought the world got younger and happier every minute .
When they came in to breakfast , papa and mamma looked at Daisy , and then nodded with a smile at Aunt Wee ; for , though Daisy's frock was soiled , her boots wet , and her hair tumbled , her cheeks were rosy , eyes bright , and voice so cheerful that they thought it better music than any in the summer world without .
`` Hunting fairies is a pleasant play , isn't it , Daisy ? ''
said papa , as he tasted the berries , and admired the green basket .
`` Oh , yes !
and we are going again to-morrow .
Aunt Wee says we must try seven days at least .
I like it , and mean to keep on till I really find my fairy . ''
`` I think you will find something better than ` little vanishers , ' dear , '' said mamma , filling up the bowl of bread and milk which Daisy was fast emptying ; for she certainly had found an appetite .
`` There it is again ! ''
cried Daisy , flying out of bed the next morning still earlier than the day before .
Yes , there it was , the fairy music , as blithe and sweet as ever ; and the morning-glories rung their delicate bells as if keeping time .
Daisy felt rather sleepy , but remembered her promise to Aunt Wee , and splashed into her tub , singing the bob-o-link's song as she bathed .
`` Where shall we go to-day ? ''
she asked , as they went out into the garden .
`` I think we 'd better try a new place ; so we'll go to the farmyard ; and , while we feed the hens , I'll listen to their chat , and perhaps can learn something from it , '' replied Wee soberly .
`` Do hens know about fairies ?
I thought they were very dull things , and didn't care for any thing but eating corn and laying eggs , '' said Daisy , surprised .
`` Oh , dear , no !
they are very sensible creatures , and see a deal of the world in their daily walks .
Hunting for insects gives them an excellent chance to see fairies , if there are any .
Here is some corn for the biddies ; and , after we have fed them , we will look for eggs , and so may find a brownie or two . ''
Such a clatter as there was when they came to the barnyard ; for every thing was just awake , and in the best spirits .
Ducks were paddling off to the pond ; geese to the meadow ; and meek gray guinea-hens tripping away to hunt bugs in the garden .
A splendid cock stood on the wall , and crowed so loud and clear that all the neighboring chanticleers replied .
The motherly hens clucked and scratched with their busy broods about them , or sat and scolded in the coops because the chicks would gad abroad .
Doves cooed on the sunny roof , and smoothed their gleaming feathers .
Daisy's donkey nibbled a thistle by the wall , and a stately peacock marched before the door with all his plumage spread .
It made Daisy laugh to see the airs the fowls put on as she scattered corn , and threw meal and water to the chicks .
Some pushed and gobbled ; some stood meekly outside the crowd , and got what they could ; others seized a mouthful , and ran away to eat it in a corner .
The chicks got into the pan entirely , and tumbled one over the other in their hurry to eat ; but the mammas saw that none went hungry .
And the polite cock waited upon them in the most gentlemanly manner , making queer little clucks and gurgles as if he said : `` Allow me , madam , to offer you this kernel ; '' or , `` Here , my dear , try that bit . ''
And sometimes he pecked a little , with a loud quaver , evidently saying , `` Come , come , children , behave yourselves , and don't eat like pigs . ''
`` What is she saying ? ''
asked Daisy , pointing to an old gray hen in a black turban , who was walking about alone , muttering to herself , as hens often do in their promenades .
`` She says a cat has made a nest , and hatched three kits up on the loft , near her own nest ; and she doesn't like it , because their mewing annoys her , '' said Wee , after listening a minute .
`` How nice !
let's go and find them .
But do you learn anything about the fairies from the hen's chat ? ''
`` No : they have been so busy setting , they have had no time for picnics yet .
But they will let us know , if they discover any . ''
In the barn , the cows were being milked ; and Daisy had a mugful of it , warm and sweet , out of the foaming pail .
`` We'll take some to Mrs. Purr ; for , I dare say , she doesn't like to leave the kits long , and will enjoy a sip of something comfortable , '' said Wee , as Daisy climbed the ladder , and went rustling over the hay to a corner , whence came a joyful `` Mew ! ''
What a charming sight it was , to be sure !
a snow-white cat lying in a cosy nest , and , by her , three snow-white kits , wagging three very small gray tails .
`` There never was any thing so lovely ! ''
cried Daisy , as she sat with the three downy balls in her lap , while the mamma gratefully lapped the new milk from Aunt Wee's cup .
`` Are they better than fairies ? ''
`` Almost : for I know about pussies , and can cuddle them ; but I couldn't a fairy , you know , and they might be afraid of me .
These dears are not afraid , and I shall have such fun with them as they grow up .
What shall we name them , auntie ? ''
`` Snowball , Patpaw , and Wagtail would do , I think , '' said Wee , stroking the cat , who rubbed against her , purring very loud .
`` Yes : I like those names for my pets .
But what is Mrs. Purr saying , with her mouth up to your ear ? ''
asked Daisy , who firmly believed that Aunt Wee knew every thing .
`` She tells me that when she went on a grasshopper hunt the other day , as she ran through the meadow , she saw some lovely creatures all in blue , with gauze wings , flying about over the river , and sitting in the water-lilies .
She thinks they may be fairies , and advises us to go and look . ''
`` So we will to-morrow , '' said Daisy .
`` Ask her , please , if I may take the kits into the house , if I'll be very careful and give them a nice big bed to sleep in . ''
`` She says you may ; but she must go too , else the kits will cry , '' said Wee , after listening to Pussy's purr a minute .
Much pleased with her new pets , Daisy took them in her apron , and , followed by their confiding mamma , marched to the house , and established them in the old cradle which used to be hers .
Pussy got in also ; and , when they were settled on a soft cushion , Daisy rocked them gently to and fro .
At first Mrs. Purr opened her yellow eyes , and looked rather anxious : but , as nothing uncomfortable happened , she composed herself , and soon quite liked the motion ; for she fell asleep , and made a pretty picture as she lay with her downy white babies on her downy white breast .
When the sun rose next morning , he saw Daisy and Wee floating down the river in their boat .
`` Bless me !
here's company , '' said the sun , and began at once to make them welcome in his most charming manner .
He set the waves to sparkling with a sudden shimmer ; he shot long rays of light through the dark hemlocks , till they looked like fairy trees ; he touched Daisy's hair and it turned to gold ; he chased away the shadows that lurked among the hills ; he drew up the misty curtain that hovered over the river ; and , with the warmth of his kisses , waked the sleeping lilies .
`` Look , look , Aunt Wee !
how they open , one by one , as the light shines on them !
We shan't have to wait any longer ; for they get up with the sun , as you do . ''
As she spoke , Daisy caught a half-open lily , and drew it up , fragrant and dripping , fresh from its sleep .
`` They look like a fleet of fairy ships , anchored in this quiet harbor , with sails half furled , and crews asleep .
See the little sailors , in their yellow jackets , lifting up their heads as the wind blows its whistle , like a boatswain , to ` pipe all hands . ' ''
Daisy laughed at Aunt Wee's fancy , and stirred up the crew of the Water-sprite , as she called her flower , till the white sails were all set , and it was ready for a summer voyage .
`` It is time we saw the fairies in blue , unless old Madam Purr deceived us .
I hope we shall find one ; for , though I enjoy every thing we see , I do want my elf too . ''
`` What is that ? ''
cried Wee ; and Daisy flew up so quickly that the boat rocked like a cradle .
A slender creature , in a blue dress , with gauzy wings , darted by , and vanished among the rushes that nodded by the bank .
`` Go nearer , -- softly !
softly !
-- and maybe it will fly out again .
I really think it was a fairy ; for I never saw any thing like it before , '' whispered Daisy , much excited .
Wee rowed in among the green rushes and purple water-weeds , and out flew half-a-dozen of the blue-bodied creatures .
They didn't seem afraid , but skimmed about the boat , as if curious to see what it was ; and Daisy sat , and stared with all her might .
Presently one of the lovely things lit on the lily in her hand , and she held her breath to watch it .
A little shadow of disappointment passed over her face as she looked ; but it was gone at once , and her voice was full of delight as she said softly : `` It's not a fairy , Aunt Wee ; but it is very beautiful , with its slender blue body , its lacy wings , and bright eyes .
What name does it have ? ''
`` We call it a dragon-fly ; and it could tell you a pretty little story about itself , could you understand it .
In May the tiny eggs are dropped on the water , and sink to the bottom , where little creatures are born , -- ugly , brown things , with six legs and no wings .
They feed on water-insects , and for a long time swim about in this state .
When ready , they climb up the stem of some plant , and sit in the sun till the ugly brown shells drop away , and the lovely winged creatures appear .
They grow in an hour to be perfect dragon-flies , and float away to lead happy lives in the sunshine by the river . ''
As if only waiting till the story was done , the dragon-fly flew off with a whirr , and darted to and fro , hunting for its breakfast , glittering splendidly as it flashed among the leaves or darted close above the water .
Daisy forgot her disappointment in a minute , and went fishing for lilies ; while the turtles came up to sun themselves on the rocks , the merry little tadpoles wiggled in the shallow places , and a wild duck paddled by with a brood of ducklings following in her wake .
`` Oh , dear !
it rains ; and we can't go fairy-hunting at all , '' said Daisy next morning , as the patter on the window-pane woke her up , and Aunt Wee came in to dress her .
`` Yes , we can , dear ; jump up , and see what a funny place I'll take you to . ''
Daisy thought the rain would be a capital excuse for lying in bed ; for she still liked to cuddle and drowse in her cosey , warm nest .
But she was curious to know where the curious place was ; so she got up and followed .
`` Why , Aunt Wee , this is the garret ; and there isn't any thing nice or funny here , '' she said , as they climbed the stairs , and came into the big attic , filled with all manner of old things .
`` Isn't there ?
We'll soon see . ''
And so they did : for Aunt Wee began to play ; and presently Daisy was shouting with fun as she sat on an old saddle , with a hair-covered trunk for a horse , a big old-fashioned bonnet on her head , and a red silk petticoat for a habit .
Then they went to sea in a great chest , and got wrecked on a desert island , where they built a fort with boxes and bags , hunted bears with rusty guns , and had to eat dried berries , herbs and nuts ; for no other food could be found .
Aunt Wee got an old fiddle , and had a dancing-school , where Daisy capered till she was tired .
So they rummaged out some dusty books , and looked at pictures so quietly that a little mouse came out of a drawer and peeped about , thinking no one was there .
`` Let's find the nest , since we don't find any fairy , '' said Wee ; and , opening the drawer , she turned over the things till she came to a pair of old velvet shoes ; and there in the toe of one , nicely cuddled under a bit of flannel , lay four pink mites , which woke up , and stretched their tiny legs , and squeaked such small squeaks one could hardly hear them .
`` How cunning they are !
I wish they would let me put them with the kits , and have a nursery full of babies .
Wouldn't it be nice to see them all grow up ? ''
said Daisy .
`` I 'm afraid they wouldn't grow up , if Mrs. Purr lived with them , '' began Wee , but got no further ; for just then the cat bounced into the drawer , and ate up the mouselings in four mouthfuls .
Daisy screamed ; the mother-mouse gave a doleful squeak , and ran into a hole ; and Aunt Wee tried to save the little ones .
But it was too late : Purr had got her breakfast , and sat washing her face after it , as if she had enjoyed it .
`` Never mind , Daisy : she would have caught them by and by , and it's as well to have them taken care of before they do any harm .
There is the bell : don't cry , but come and tell papa what a fine romp we've had . ''
`` It doesn't rain , but it's dreadfully wet ; so we'll go to the dairy , and see if any sprites are hiding there , '' said Wee next day ; and to the dairy they went .
A pleasant place it was , -- so clean and cool , and as full of sweet odors as if the ghosts of buttercups and clover still haunted the milk which they had helped to make .
Dolly was churning , and Polly was making up butter in nice little pats .
Both were very kind , and let Daisy peep everywhere .
All round on white shelves stood the shining pans , full of milk ; the stone floor was wet ; and a stream of water ran along a narrow bed through the room , and in it stood jars of butter , pots of cream , and cans of milk .
The window was open , and hop-vines shook their green bells before it .
The birds sang outside , and maids sang inside , as the churn and the wooden spatters kept time : `` Brindle and Bess , White-star and Jess -- Come , butter , come !
Eat cowslips fine , Red columbine -- Come , butter , come !
Grasses green and tall , Clover , best of all , -- Come , butter , come !
And give every night Milk sweet and white -- Come , butter , come !
Make the churn go , See the lumps grow !
-- Come , butter , come ! ''
Daisy sang also , and turned the handle till she was tired ; then she helped Polly with the butter , and made four little pats , -- one stamped with a star for papa , one with a rose for mamma , a strawberry for Aunt Wee , and a cow for herself .
She skimmed a pitcher of cream with a shallow shell , and liked the work so much she asked to have a little pan of milk put by for her to take care of every day .
Dolly promised , and gave her a small shell and a low shelf all to herself .
When she went in , she carried her pretty pats in one hand , the cream-pot in the other , and entered the breakfast room looking as brisk and rosy as a little milkmaid .
It was a lovely morning when Daisy was next roused by the fairy music , and the ponies were standing at the door .
`` Are we going far ? ''
she asked , as Wee put on her riding-skirt , and tied back her hair .
`` Up to the mountain-top : it's only a mile ; and we shall have time , if we ride fast , '' answered Wee .
Away they went , through the green lane , over the bridge , and up the steep hillside where the sheep fed and colts frisked as they passed by .
Higher and higher climbed Dandy and Prance , the ponies ; and gayer and gayer grew Daisy and Wee , as the fresh air blew over them , and the morning-red glowed on their faces .
When they reached the top , they sat on a tall stone , and looked down into the valley on either side .
`` This seems like a place to find giants , not fairies , it is so high and big and splendid up here , '' said Daisy , as her eye roamed over river , forest , town , and hill .
`` There are giants here ; and I brought you up to see them , '' answered Wee .
`` Mercy , me !
where are they ? ''
cried Daisy , looking very curious and rather frightened .
`` There is one of them . ''
And Wee pointed to the waterfall that went dashing and foaming down into the valley .
`` That giant turns the wheels of all the mills you see .
Some of them grind grain for our bread , some help to spin cloth for our clothes , some make paper , and others saw trees into boards .
That is a beautiful and busy giant , Daisy . ''
`` So it is , and some day we'll go and see it work .
Show me the others : I like your giants ` most as well as those in the fairy-books . ''
`` On this side you'll see another , called Steam .
He is a very strong fellow ; for , with the help of gunpowder , he will break the granite mountain in pieces , and carry it away .
He works in the other mills , and takes heavy loads of stone , cloth , paper , and wood all over the country .
Then , on the right of us is a third giant , called Electricity .
He runs along those wires , and carries messages from one end of the world to the other .
He goes under the sea and through the air ; he brings news to every one ; runs day and night , yet never tires ; and often helps sick people with his lively magic . ''
`` I like him best , I think ; for he is more like a real , wonderful giant .
Is there any on that side of us ? ''
asked Daisy , turning round to look behind her .
`` Yes : the best and most powerful of all lives in that big house with the bell on the roof , '' said Wee , smiling .
`` Why , that's only the schoolhouse . ''
`` Education is a long word , dear ; but you know what it means , and , as you grow older , you will see what wonders it can work .
It is a noble giant ; for in this country rich and poor are helped by it , and no one need suffer for it unless they choose .
It works more wonders than any other : it changes little children into wise , good men and women , who rule the world , and make happy homes everywhere ; it helps write books , sing songs , paint pictures , do good deeds , and beautify the world .
Love and respect it , my little Daisy , and be glad that you live now when such giants lend a hand to dwarfs like us . ''
Daisy sat still a long time , looking all about her on the mountain-top ; and , when she rode away , she carried a new thought in her mind , which she never forgot .
`` This is the last day of the seven , and no fairies have been found .
Do you think I ever shall see one ? ''
said Daisy , on the Sunday morning that ended her week's hunt .
`` Not the kind you think of , for there are none such , Daisy ; but you have found two better and more beautiful ones than any fanciful sprites , '' said Wee .
`` Have I ?
Where are they ?
What are their names ? ''
Aunt Wee drew her to the glass , and said , as she pointed to Daisy's face : `` Here they are , and their names are Health and Happiness .
There are many ways of losing them , and they are hard to catch when once lost .
I wanted you to keep both , and tried to show you how .
A happy , healthful hour in the morning sweetens and brightens the whole day ; and there is no fairy-book half so wonderful as the lovely world all about us , if we only know how to read it . ''
`` Then all these mornings we were hunting after health and happiness , instead of fairies , were we ? ''
`` Yes : haven't you enjoyed it , and don't you think you have caught my fairies ? ''
Daisy looked from a little picture of herself , which Wee had drawn some time ago , to her image in the glass .
One was dull and sad , pale and cross ; the other , rosy , gay , and smiling , -- the likeness of a happy , hearty little girl , wide-awake and in good tune .
She understood the kind joke ; and , turning , kissed Aunt Wee , as she said , gratefully : `` I think I have caught your elves , and I'll try to keep them all my life .
But tell me one thing : was the music that woke me all a joke too ? ''
`` No , dear : here it is , and now it is your own ; for you have learned to wake and listen to it . ''
Daisy looked , and saw Aunt Wee lean from the window , and take out of a hollow nook , in the old tree close by , a little box .
She set it on the table , touched a spring , and the airy music sounded more beautiful than ever .
`` Is it mine , all mine ? ''
cried Daisy .
`` Yes : I hid it while I tried my little plan , and now you shall have it for your own .
See , here is the best elf I can give you , and she will dance whenever you call her . ''
Wee pushed a golden pin , and up sprang a tiny figure , all crimson and gold , with shining wings , and a garland on its dainty head .
Softly played the hidden music , and airily danced the little sylph till the silvery chime died away ; then , folding her delicate arms , she sank from sight , leaving Daisy breathless with delight .
V. SHADOW-CHILDREN .
Ned , Polly , and Will sat on the steps one sun-shiny morning , doing nothing , except wish they had something pleasant to do .
`` Something new , something never heard of before , -- wouldn't that be jolly ? ''
said Ned , with a great yawn .
`` It must be an amusing play , and one that we don't get tired of very soon , '' added Polly gravely .
`` And something that didn't be wrong , else mamma wouldn't like it , '' said little Will , who was very good for a small boy .
As no one could suggest any thing to suit , they all sat silent a few minutes .
Suddenly Ned said , rather crossly , `` I wish my shadow wouldn't mock me .
Every time I stretch or gape it does the same , and I don't like it . ''
`` Poor thing , it can't help that : it has to do just what you do , and be your slave all day .
I 'm glad I ain't a shadow , '' said Polly .
`` I try to run away from mine sometimes , but I can't ever .
It will come after me ; and in the night it scares me , if it gets big and black , '' said Will , looking behind him .
`` Wouldn't it be fun to see shadows going about alone , and doing things like people ? ''
asked Polly .
`` I just wish they would .
I 'd like to see ours cut capers ; that would be a jolly new game , wouldn't it ? ''
said Ned .
No one had time to speak ; for suddenly the three little shadows on the sunny wall behind them stood up straight , and began to bow .
`` Mercy , me ! ''
cried Polly , staring at them .
`` By Jove , that's odd ! ''
said Ned , looking queer .
`` Are they alive ? ''
asked Will , a little frightened .
`` Don't be alarmed : they won't hurt you , '' said a soft voice .
`` To-day is midsummer-day , and whoever wishes a wish can have it till midnight .
You want to see your shadows by themselves ; and you can , if you promise to follow them as they have followed you so long .
They will not get you into harm ; so you may safely try it , if you like .
Do you agree for the day to do as they do , and so have your wish ? ''
`` Yes , we promise , '' answered the children .
`` Tell no one till night , and be faithful shadows to the shadows . ''
The voice was silent , but with more funny little bows the shadows began to move off in different directions .
The children knew their own : for Ned's was the tallest , and had its hands in its pockets ; Polly's had a frock on , and two bows where its hair was tied up ; while Will's was a plump little shadow in a blouse , with a curly head and a pug nose .
Each child went after its shadow , laughing , and enjoying the fun .
Ned's master went straight to the shed , took down a basket , and marched away to the garden , where it began to move its hands as if busily picking peas .
Ned stopped laughing when he saw that , and looked rather ashamed ; for he remembered that his mother had asked him to do that little job for her , and he had answered , -- `` Oh , bother the old peas !
I 'm busy , and I can't . ''
`` Who told you about this ? ''
he asked , beginning to work .
The shadow shook its head , and pointed first to Ned's new jacket , then to a set of nice garden tools near by , and then seemed to blow a kiss from its shadowy fingers towards mamma , who was just passing the open gate .
`` Oh !
you mean that she does lots for me ; so I ought to do what I can for her , and love her dearly , '' said Ned , getting a pleasanter face every minute .
The shadow nodded , and worked away as busily as the bees , tumbling heels over head in the great yellow squash blossoms , and getting as dusty as little millers .
Somehow Ned rather liked the work , with such an odd comrade near by ; for , though the shadow didn't really help a bit , it seemed to try , and set an excellent example .
When the basket was full , the shadow took one handle , and Ned the other ; and they carried it in .
`` Thank you , dear .
I was afraid we should have to give up our peas to-day : I 'm so busy , I can't stop , '' said mamma , looking surprised and pleased .
Ned couldn't stop to talk ; for the shadow ran away to the woodpile , and began to chop with all its might .
`` Well , I suppose I must ; but I never saw such a fellow for work as this shadow is .
He isn't a bit like me , though he's been with me so long , '' said Ned , swinging the real hatchet in time with the shadowy one .
Polly's new mistress went to the dining-room , and fell to washing up the breakfast cups .
Polly hated that work , and sulkily began to rattle the spoons and knock the things about .
But the shadow wouldn't allow that ; and Polly had to do just what it did , though she grumbled all the while .
`` She doesn't splash a bit , or make any clatter ; so I guess she's a tidy creature , '' said Polly .
`` How long she does rub each spoon and glass .
We never shall get done .
What a fuss she makes with the napkins , laying them all even in the drawer .
And now she's at the salt-cellars , doing them just as mamma likes .
I wish she 'd live here , and do my work for me .
Why , what's that ? ''
And Polly stopped fretting to listen ; for she seemed to hear the sound of singing , -- so sweet , and yet so very faint she could catch no words , and only make out a cheerful little tune .
`` Do you hear any one singing , mamma ? ''
she asked .
`` No : I wish I did . ''
And mamma sighed ; for baby was poorly , piles of sewing lay waiting for her , Biddy was turning things topsy-turvy in the kitchen for want of a word from the mistress , and Polly was looking sullen .
The little girl didn't say any more , but worked quietly and watched the shadow , feeling sure the faint song came from it .
Presently she began to hum the tune she caught by snatches ; and , before she knew it , she was singing away like a blackbird .
Baby stopped crying , and mamma said , smiling : `` Now I hear somebody singing , and it's the music I like best in the world . ''
That pleased Polly ; but , a minute after , she stopped smiling , for the shadow went and took baby , or seemed to , and Polly really did .
Now , baby was heavy , and cross with its teeth ; and Polly didn't feel like tending it one bit .
Mamma hurried away to the kitchen ; and Polly walked up and down the room with poor baby hanging over her arm , crying dismally , with a pin in its back , a wet bib under its chin , and nothing cold and hard to bite with its hot , aching gums , where the little teeth were trying to come through .
`` Do stop , you naughty , fretty baby .
I 'm tired of your screaming , and it's high time you went to sleep .
Bless me !
what's Miss Shadow doing with her baby ? ''
said Polly .
Miss Shadow took out the big pin and laid it away , put on a dry bib , and gave her baby a nice ivory ring to bite ; then began to dance up and down the room , till the shadowy baby clapped its hands and kicked delightedly .
Polly laughed , and did the same , feeling sorry she had been so pettish .
Presently both babies grew quiet , went to sleep , and were laid in the cradle .
`` Now , I hope we shall rest a little , '' said Polly , stretching her arms .
But , no : down sat the shadow , and began to sew , making her needle fly like a real little seamstress .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
groaned Polly .
`` I promised to hem those handkerchiefs for Ned , and so I must ; but I do think handkerchiefs are the most pokey things in the world to sew .
I dare say you think you can sew faster than I can .
Just wait a bit , and see what I can do , miss , '' she said to the shadow .
It took some time to find her thimble and needles and spools , for Polly wasn't a very neat little girl ; but she got settled at last , and stitched away as if bent on beating her dumb friend .
Little Will's shadow went up to the nursery , and stopped before a basin of water .
`` Oh !
ah !
ain't this drefful ? ''
cried Will , with a shiver ; for he knew he 'd got to have his face washed , because he wouldn't have it done properly when he got up , but ran away .
Now , Will was a good child ; but this one thing was his great trouble , and sometimes he couldn't bear it .
Jane was so rough .
She let soap get in his eyes , and water run down his neck , and she pinched his nose when she wiped him , and brushed his hair so hard that really it was dreadful ; and even a bigger boy would have found it hard to bear .
He shivered and sighed : but Jane came in ; and , when he saw that the shadow stood still and took the scrubbing like a little hero , he tried to do the same , and succeeded so well that Jane actually patted his head and called him `` a deary ; '' which was something new , for old Nurse Jane was always very busy and rather cross .
Feeling that nothing worse could possibly happen to him , Will ran after his shadow , as it flitted away into the barn , and began to feed the chickens .
`` There , now !
I forgetted all about my chickeys , and the shadow ` membered 'em ; and I 'm glad of it , '' said Will , scattering dabs of meal and water to the chirping , downy little creatures who pecked and fluttered at his feet .
Little shadow hunted for eggs , drove the turkeys out of the garden , and picked a basket of chips : then it went to play with Sammy , a neighbor's child ; for , being a small shadow , it hadn't many jobs to do , and plenty of active play was good for it .
Sammy was a rough little boy and rather selfish : so , when they played ball , he wanted to throw all the time ; and , when Will objected , he grew angry and struck him .
The blow didn't hurt Will's cheek much , but it did his little feelings ; and he lifted his hand to strike back , when he saw his shadow go and kiss Sammy's shadow .
All his anger was gone in a minute , and he just put his arm round Sammy's neck and kissed him .
This kiss for a blow made him so ashamed that he began to cry , and couldn't be comforted till he had given Will his best marble and a ride on his pony .
About an hour before dinner , the three shadows and the children met in the garden , and had a grand game of play , after they had told each other what they had been doing since they parted .
Now , the shadows didn't forget baby even then , but got out the wagon , and Miss Baby , all fresh from her nap , sat among her pillows like a queen , while Ned was horse , Polly footman , and Will driver ; and in this way she travelled all round the garden and barn , up the lane and down to the brook , where she was much delighted with the water sparkling along and the fine splash of the stones they threw in .
When the dinner-bell rang , mamma saw four clean , rosy faces and four smooth heads at the table ; for the shadow-children made themselves neat , without being told .
Every one was merry and hungry and good-natured .
Even poor baby forgot her teeth , and played a regular rub-a-dub with her spoon on her mug , and tried to tell about the fine things she saw on her drive .
The children said nothing about the new play , and no one observed the queer actions of their shadows but themselves .
They saw that there was no gobbling , or stretching over , or spilling of things , among the shadows ; but that they waited to be helped , served others first , and ate tidily , which was a great improvement upon the usual state of things .
It was Saturday afternoon : the day was fine , and mamma told them they could go for a holiday frolic in the woods .
`` Don't go to the pond , and be home early , '' she said .
`` Yes , mamma ; we'll remember , '' they answered , as they scampered away to get ready .
`` We shall go through the village , and Mary King will be looking out ; so I shall wear my best hat .
Mamma won't see me , if I slip down the back way ; and I do so want Mary to know that my hat is prettier than hers , '' said Polly , up in her little room .
Now Polly was rather vain , and liked to prink ; so she got out the new hat , and spent some time in smoothing her braids and putting on her blue ribbons .
But when all was ready , and the boys getting impatient , she found her shadow , with a sun-bonnet on , standing by the door , as if to prevent her going out .
`` You tiresome thing !
do you mean that I mustn't wear my hat , but that old bonnet ? ''
asked Polly .
The shadow nodded and beckoned , and patted its head , as if it was all right .
`` I wish I hadn't promised to do as you do ; then I could do as I like , and not make a fright of myself , '' said Polly , rather sulkily , as she put away the hat , and tied on the old bonnet with a jerk .
Once out in the lovely sunshine , she soon forgot the little disappointment ; and , as they didn't go through the village , but by a green lane , where she found some big blackberries , she was quite contented .
Polly had a basket to hold fruit or flowers , Ned his jackknife , and Will a long stick on which he rode , fancying that this sort of horse would help his short legs along ; so they picked , whittled , and trotted their way to the wood , finding all manner of interesting things on the road .
The wood was full of pleasant sights and sounds ; for wild roses bloomed all along the path , ferns and scarlet berries filled the little dells , squirrels chattered , birds sang , and pines whispered musically overhead .
`` I 'm going to stop here and rest , and make a wreath of these pretty wild roses for baby : it's her birthday , and it will please mamma , '' said Polly , sitting down on a mound of moss , with a lapful of flowers .
`` I 'm going to cut a fishing-pole , and will be back in a minute . ''
And Ned went crashing into the thickest part of the wood .
`` I shall see where that rabbit went to , and maybe I'll find some berries , '' said Will , trotting down the path the wild rabbit had gone .
The sound of the boys ' steps died away , and Polly was wondering how it would seem to live all alone in the wood , when a little girl came trudging by , with a great pail of berries on her arm .
She was a poor child : her feet were bare , her gown was ragged , she wore an old shawl over her head , and walked as if lame .
Polly sat behind the ferns , and the child did not see her till Polly called out .
The sudden sound startled her ; and she dropped her pail , spilling the berries all over the path .
The little girl began to cry , and Polly to laugh , saying , in a scornful tone : `` How silly to cry for a few berries ! ''
`` I've been all day picking 'em , '' said the girl ; `` and I 'm so tired and hungry ; 'cause I didn't dare to go home till my pail was full , -- mother scolds if I do , -- and now they 're all spoilt .
Oh , dear !
dear me ! ''
And she cried so hard that great tears fell on the moss .
Polly was sorry now , and sat looking at her till she saw her shadow down on its knees , picking up the berries ; then it seemed to fold its little handkerchief round the girl's bruised foot , and give her something from its pocket .
Polly jumped up and imitated the kind shadow , even to giving the great piece of gingerbread she had brought for fear she should be hungry .
`` Take this , '' she said gently .
`` I 'm sorry I frightened you .
Here are the berries all picked up , and none the worse for falling in the grass .
If you'll take them to the white house on the hill , my mamma will buy them , and then your mother won't scold you . ''
`` Oh , thank you , miss !
It's ever so good .
I'll take the berries to your mother , and bring her more whenever she likes , '' said the child gratefully , as she walked away munching the gingerbread , and smiling till there were little rainbows in her tears .
Meanwhile Ned had poked about in the bushes , looking for a good pole .
Presently he saw a willow down by the pond , and thought that would give him a nice , smooth pole .
He forgot his promise , and down he went to the pond ; where he cut his stick , and was whittling the end , when he saw a boat by the shore .
It was untied , and oars lay in it , as if waiting for some one to come and row out .
`` I'll just take a little pull across , and get those cardinal-flowers for Polly , '' he said ; and went to the boat .
He got in , and was about to push off , when he saw his shadow standing on the shore .
`` Don't be a fool ; get in , and come along , '' he said to it , remembering his promise now , but deciding to break it , and ask pardon afterwards .
But the shadow shook its head ; pointed to the swift stream that ran between the banks , the rocks and mud on the opposite side , and the leaky boat itself .
`` I ain't afraid : mamma won't mind , if I tell her I 'm sorry ; and it will be such fun to row alone .
Be a good fellow , and let me go , '' said Ned , beckoning .
But the shadow would not stir , and Ned was obliged to mind .
He did so very reluctantly , and scolded the shadow well as he went back to Polly ; though all the time he felt he was doing right , and knew he should be glad afterwards .
Will trotted after the rabbit , but didn't find it ; he found a bird's - nest instead with four little birds in it .
He had an empty cage at home , and longed for something to put in it ; for kittens didn't like it , and caterpillars and beetlebugs got away .
He chose the biggest bird , and , holding him carefully , walked away to find Polly .
The poor mother-bird chirped and fluttered in great distress ; but Will kept on till his little shadow came before him , and tried to make him turn back .
`` No , no , I want him , '' said Will .
`` I won't hurt him , and his mother has three left : she won't mind if I take one . ''
Here the mother-bird chirped so loud it was impossible to help seeing that she did care very much ; and the shadow stamped its foot and waved its hand , as if ordering the young robber to carry back the baby-bird .
Will stood still , and thought a minute ; but his little heart was a very kind one , and he soon turned about , saying pleasantly : `` Yes , it is naughty , and I won't do it .
I'll ask mamma to get me a canary , and will let this birdie stay with his brothers . ''
The shadow patted him on the shoulder , and seemed to be delighted as Will put the bird in the nest and walked on , feeling much happier than if he had kept it .
A bush of purple berries grew by the path , and Will stopped to pick some .
He didn't know what they were , and mamma had often told him never to eat strange things .
But they smelt so good , and looked so nice , he couldn't resist , and lifted one to his mouth , when little shadow motioned for him to stop .
`` Oh , dear !
you don't let me do any thing I want to , '' sighed Will .
`` I shall ask Polly if I tarn't eat these ; and , if she says I may , I shall , so now . ''
He ran off to ask Polly ; but she said they were poisonous , and begged him to throw them away .
`` Good little shadow , to keep me safe ! ''
cried Will .
`` I like you ; and I'll mind better next time , 'cause you are always right . ''
The shadow seemed to like this , and bobbed about so comically it made Will laugh till his eyes were full of tears .
Ned came back , and they went on , having grand times in the wood .
They found plenty of berries to fill the basket ; they swung down on slender birches , and got rolls of white bark for canoes ; they saw all sorts of wild-wood insects and birds ; and frolicked till they were tired .
As they crossed a field , a cow suddenly put down her head and ran at them , as if she was afraid they meant to hurt her calf .
All turned , and ran as fast as they could toward the wall ; but poor Will in his fright tumbled down , and lay screaming .
Ned and Polly had reached the wall , and , looking back , saw that their shadows had not followed .
Ned's stood before Will , brandishing his pole ; and Polly's was flapping a shadowy sun-bonnet with all its might .
As soon as they saw that , back they went , -- Ned to threaten till he broke his pole , and Polly to flap till the strings came off .
As if anxious to do its part , the bonnet flew up in the air , and coming down lit on the cross cow's head ; which so astonished her that she ran away as hard as she could pelt .
`` Wasn't that funny ? ''
said Will , when they had tumbled over the wall , and lay laughing in the grass on the safe side .
`` I 'm glad I wore the old bonnet ; for I suppose my best hat would have gone just the same , '' said Polly thankfully .
`` The calf doesn't know its own mother with that thing on , '' laughed Ned .
`` How brave and kind you were to come back and save me !
I 'd have been deaded if you hadn't , '' said Will , looking at his brother and sister with his little face full of grateful admiration .
They turned towards home after this flurry , feeling quite like heroes .
When they came to the corner where two roads met , Ned proposed they should take the river-road ; for , though the longest , it was much the pleasantest .
`` We shan't be home at supper-time , '' said Polly .
`` You won't be able to do your jobs , Ned , nor I mine , and Will's chickens will have to go to bed hungry . ''
`` Never mind : it's a holiday , so let's enjoy it , and not bother , '' answered Ned .
`` We promised mamma we 'd come home early , '' said Will .
They stood looking at the two roads , -- one sandy , hot , and hilly ; the other green and cool and level , along the river-side .
They all chose the pleasant path , and walked on till Ned cried out , `` Why , where are our shadows ? ''
They looked behind , before , and on either side ; but nowhere could they see them .
`` They were with us at the corner , '' said Will .
`` Let's run back , and try to find them , '' said Polly .
`` No , let 'em go : I 'm tired of minding mine , and don't care if I never see it again , '' said Ned .
`` Don't say so ; for I remember hearing about a man who sold his shadow , and then got into lots of trouble because he had none .
We promised to follow them , and we must , '' said Polly .
`` I wish , '' began Ned in a pet ; but Polly clapped her hand over his mouth , saying : `` Pray , don't wish now ; for it may come to pass as the man's wish in the fairy tale did , and the black pudding flew up and stuck tight to his wife's nose . ''
This made Ned laugh , and they all turned back to the corner .
Looking up the hilly road , they saw the three shadows trudging along , as if bent on getting home in good time .
Without saying a word , the children followed ; and , when they got to the garden gate , they all said at once : `` Aren't you glad you came ? ''
Under the elm-tree stood a pretty tea-table , covered with bread and butter , custards , and berries , and in the middle a fine cake with sugar-roses on the top ; and mamma and baby , all nicely dressed , were waiting to welcome them to the birthday feast .
Polly crowned the little queen , Ned gave her a willow whistle he had made , and Will some pretty , bright pebbles he had found ; and Miss Baby was as happy as a bird , with her treasures .
A pleasant supper-time ; then the small duties for each one ; and then the go-to-bed frolic .
The nursery was a big room , and in the evening a bright wood fire always burned there for baby .
Mamma sat before it , softly rubbing baby's little rosy limbs before she went to bed , singing and telling stories meanwhile to the three children who pranced about in their long nightgowns .
This evening they had a gay time ; for the shadows amused them by all sorts of antics , and kept them laughing till they were tired .
As they sat resting on the big sofa , they heard a soft , sweet voice singing .
It wasn't mamma ; for she was only talking to baby , and this voice sang a real song .
Presently they saw mamma's shadow on the wall , and found it was the shadow-mother singing to the shadow-children .
They listened intently , and this is what they heard : `` Little shadows , little shadows , Dancing on the chamber wall , While I sit beside the hearthstone Where the red flames rise and fall .
Caps and nightgowns , caps and nightgowns , My three antic shadows wear ; And no sound they make in playing , For the six small feet are bare .
`` Dancing gayly , dancing gayly , To and fro all together , Like a family of daisies Blown about in windy weather ; Nimble fairies , nimble fairies , Playing pranks in the warm glow , While I sing the nursery ditties Childish phantoms love and know .
`` Now what happens , now what happens ?
One small shadow's tumbled down : I can see it on the carpet , Softly rubbing its hurt crown .
No one whimpers , no one whimpers ; A brave-hearted sprite is this : See !
the others offer comfort In a silent , shadowy kiss .
`` Hush !
they 're creeping ; hush !
they 're creeping , Up about my rocking-chair : I can feel their loving fingers Clasp my neck and touch my hair .
Little shadows , little shadows , Take me captive , hold me tight , As they climb and cling and whisper , ` Mother dear , good night !
good night ! ' ''
As the song ended , the real children , as well as the shadows , lovingly kissed mamma , and said `` Good-night ; '' then went away into their rooms , said their prayers , and nestled down into their beds .
Ned slept alone in the room next that which Polly and Will had ; and , after lying quiet a little while , he called out softly : `` I say , Polly , are you asleep ? ''
`` No : I 'm thinking what a queer day we've had , '' answered Polly .
`` It's been a good day , and I 'm glad we tried our wish ; for the shadows showed us , as well as they could , what we ought to do and be .
I shan't forget it , shall you ? ''
said Ned .
`` No : I 'm much obliged for the lesson . ''
`` So is I , '' called out Will , in a very earnest , but rather a sleepy , little voice .
`` I wonder what mamma will say , when we tell her about it , '' said Ned .
`` And I wonder if our shadows will come back to us at midnight , and follow us as they used to do , '' added Polly .
`` I shall be very careful where I lead my shadow ; 'cause he's a good little one , and set me a righter zarmple than ever I did him , '' said Will , and then dropped asleep .
The others agreed with him , and resolved that their shadows should not be ashamed of them .
All were fast asleep ; and no one but the moon saw the shadows come stealing back at midnight , and , having danced about the little beds , vanish as the clock struck twelve .
VI .
POPPY's PRANKS .
She wasn't a wilfully naughty child , this harum-scarum Poppy , but very thoughtless and very curious .
She wanted to see every thing , do every thing , and go every where : she feared nothing , and so was continually getting into scrapes .
Her pranks began early ; for , when she was about four , her mamma one day gave her a pair of green shoes with bright buttons .
Poppy thought there never was any thing so splendid , and immediately wanted to go to walk .
But mamma was busy , and Poppy couldn't go alone any farther than the garden .
She showed her shoes to the servants , the cat , the doves , and the flowers ; and then opened the gate that the people in the street might see the trim little feet she was so proud of .
Now Poppy had been forbidden to go out ; but , when she saw Kitty Allen , her neighbor , playing ball down the street , she forgot every thing but the desire to show her new shoes ; and away she went marching primly along as vain as a little peacock , as she watched the bright buttons twinkle , and heard the charming creak .
Kitty saw her coming ; and , being an ill-natured little girl , took no notice , but called out to her brother Jack : `` Ain't some folks grand ?
If I couldn't have red shoes for my best , I wouldn't have any , would you ? ''
They both laughed , and this hurt Poppy's feelings dreadfully .
She tossed her head , and tried to turn up her nose ; but , it was so very small , it couldn't be very scornful .
She said nothing , but walked gravely by , as if she was going on an errand , and hadn't heard a word .
Round the corner she went , thinking she would wait till Kitty was gone ; as she didn't like to pass again , fearing Jack might say something equally trying .
An organ-man with a monkey was playing near by ; and Poppy was soon so busy listening to the music , and watching the sad-looking monkey , that she forgot home , shoes , and Kitty altogether .
She followed the man a long way ; and , when she turned to go back , she took the wrong street , and found herself by the park .
Being fond of dandelions , Poppy went in , and gathered her hands full , enjoying herself immensely ; for Betsy , the maid , never let her play in the pond , or roll down the hill , or make dirt-pies , and now she did all these things , besides playing with strange children and talking with any one she pleased .
If she had not had her luncheon just before she started , she would have been very hungry ; for dinner-time came , without her knowing it .
By three o'clock , she began to think it was time to go home , and boldly started off to find it .
But poor little Poppy didn't know the way , and went all wrong .
She was very tired now , and hot and hungry , and wanted to see mamma , and wondered why she didn't come to the brown house with the white garden-gate .
On and on she went , up streets and down , amusing herself with looking in the shop-windows , and sitting to rest on doorsteps .
Once she asked a pleasant-faced little girl to show her the way home ; but , as she didn't know in what street it was , and said her father's name was `` papa , '' the girl couldn't help her : so she gave her a bun and went away .
Poppy ate her bun , and began to wonder what would become of her ; for night was coming on , and there didn't seem to be any prospect of finding mamma or home or bed .
Her courage was all gone now ; and , coming to a quiet place , she sat down on some high steps , and cried till her little `` hankchif , '' as she called it , was all wet .
Nobody minded her : and she felt very forlorn till a big black dog came by , and seemed to understand the matter entirely ; for he smelt of her face , licked her hands , and then lay down by her with such a friendly look in his brown eyes that Poppy was quite comforted .
She told him her story , patted his big head ; and then , being fairly tired out , laid her wet cheek on his soft back , and fell fast asleep .
It was quite dark when she woke ; but a lamp was lighted near by , and standing under it was a man ringing a great bell .
Poppy sat up , and wondered if anybody's supper was ready .
The man had a paper ; and , when people stopped at the sound of the bell , he read in a loud voice : `` Lost !
a little girl , four years old ; curly brown hair , blue eyes ; had on a white frock and green shoes ; calls herself Poppy . ''
He got no farther ; for a little voice cried out of the dark , in a tone of surprise : `` Why , dats me ! ''
The people all turned to look ; and the big man put his bell in his pocket , took her up very kindly , and said he 'd carry her home .
`` Is it far away ? ''
asked Poppy , with a little sob .
`` Yes , my dear ; but I am going to give you some supper fust , along of my little girl .
I live close by ; and , when we've had a bite , we'll go find your ma . ''
Poppy was so tired and hungry , she was glad to find herself taken care of , and let the man do as he liked .
He took her to a funny little house , and his wife gave her bread and molasses on a new tin plate with letters all round the edge .
Poppy thought it very fine , and enjoyed her supper , though the man's little girl stared at her all the time with eyes as blue as her mug .
While she ate , the man sent word to her father that she was found ; and , when both papa and mamma came hurrying in all out of breath with joy , there sat Miss Poppy talking merrily , with her face well daubed with molasses , her gown torn , her hands very dirty , and her shoes -- ah , the pretty new shoes !
-- all spoiled with mud and dust , scratched , and half worn out , the buttons dull , and the color quite gone .
No one cared for it that night ; for little runaway was kissed and petted , and taken home to her own cosey bed as tenderly as if she had done nothing naughty , and never frightened her parents out of their wits in her life .
But the next day , -- dear me !
what a sad time it was , to be sure !
When Poppy woke up , there hung the spoilt shoes over the mantle-piece ; and , as soon as she was dressed , papa came in with a long cord , one end of which he tied round Poppy's waist , and the other to the arm of the sofa .
`` I 'm very sorry to have to tie you up , like a little dog ; but I must , or you will forget , and run away again , and make mamma ill . ''
Then he went away without his morning kiss , and Poppy was so very unhappy she could hardly eat her breakfast .
She felt better by and by , and tried to play ; but the cord kept pulling her back .
She couldn't get to the window ; and , when she heard mamma passing the door , she tried to run and meet her , but had to stop halfway , for the cord jerked her over .
Cousin Fanny came up , but Poppy was so ashamed to be tied that she crept under the sofa and hid .
All day she was a prisoner , and was a very miserable little girl ; but at night she was untied , and , when mamma took her in her lap for the first time that day , Poppy held her fast , and sobbed very penitently -- `` O mamma !
I drefful sorry I runned away .
Fordive me one time more , and I never will adain ; '' and she never did .
Two or three years after this , Poppy went to live in the country , and tried some new pranks .
One day she went with her sister Nelly to see a man plough , for that sort of thing was new to her .
While the man worked , she saw him take out a piece of something brown , and bite off a bit .
`` What's that ? ''
asked Poppy .
`` Tobaccer , '' said the man .
`` Is it nice ? ''
asked Poppy .
`` Prime , '' said the man .
`` Could you let me taste it ? ''
asked curious Poppy .
`` It will make you sick , '' said the man , laughing .
`` It doesn't make you sick .
I 'd like to try , '' said Poppy , nothing daunted .
He gave her a piece ; and Poppy ate it , though it didn't taste good at all .
She did it because Cy , her favorite playfellow , told her she 'd die if she did , and tried to frighten her .
`` You darsn't eat any more , '' he said .
`` Yes , I dare .
See if I don't . ''
And Poppy took another piece , just to show how brave she was .
Silly little Poppy !
`` I ain't sick , and I shan't die , so now . ''
And Poppy pranced about as briskly as ever .
But the man shook his head , Nelly watched her anxiously , and Cy kept saying : `` Ain't you sick yet , say ? ''
For a little while Poppy felt all right ; but presently she grew rather pale , and began to look rather pensive .
She stopped running , and walked slower and slower , while her eyes got dizzy , and her hands and feet very cold .
`` Ain't you sick now , say ? ''
repeated Cy ; and Poppy tried to answer , `` Oh , dear !
no ; '' but a dreadful feeling came over her , and she could only shake her head , and hold on to Nelly .
`` Better lay down a spell , '' said the man , looking a little troubled .
`` I don't wish to dirty my clean frock , '' said Poppy faintly , as she glanced over the wide-ploughed field , and longed for a bit of grass to drop on .
She kept on bravely for another turn ; but suddenly stopped , and , quite regardless of the clean pink gown , dropped down in a furrow , looking so white and queer that Nelly began to cry .
Poppy lay a minute , then turned to Cy , and said very solemnly : `` Cy , run home , and tell my mother I 'm dying . ''
Away rushed Cy in a great fright , and burst upon Poppy's mamma , exclaiming breathlessly : `` O ma'am !
Poppy's been and ate a lot of tobacco ; and she's sick , layin ' in the field ; and she says ` Come quick , 'cause she's dyin . ' ''
`` Mercy on us !
what will happen to that child next ? ''
cried poor mamma , who was used to Poppy's mishaps .
Papa was away , and there was no carriage to bring Poppy home in ; so mamma took the little wheelbarrow , and trundled away to get the suffering Poppy .
She couldn't speak when they got to her ; and , only stopping to give the man a lecture , mamma picked up her silly little girl , and the procession moved off .
First came Cy , as grave as a sexton ; then the wheelbarrow with Poppy , white and limp and speechless , all in a bunch ; then mamma , looking amused , anxious and angry ; then Nelly , weeping as if her tender heart was entirely broken ; while the man watched them , with a grin , saying to himself : `` Twarn't my fault .
The child was a reg ` lar fool to swaller it . ''
Poppy was dreadfully sick all night , but next day was ready for more adventures and experiments .
She swung on the garret stairs , and tumbled down , nearly breaking her neck .
She rubbed her eyes with red peppers , to see if it really would make them smart , as Cy said ; and was led home quite blind and roaring with pain .
She got into the pigsty to catch a young piggy , and was taken out in a sad state of dirt .
She slipped into the brook , and was half drowned ; broke a window and her own head , swinging a little flat-iron on a string ; dropped baby in the coal-hod ; buried her doll , and spoilt her ; cut off a bit of her finger , chopping wood ; and broke a tooth , trying to turn heels over head on a haycock .
These are only a few of her pranks , but one was nearly her last .
She wanted to go bare-footed , as the little country boys and girls did ; but mamma wasn't willing , and Poppy was much afflicted .
`` It doesn't hurt Cy , and it won't hurt me , just for a little while , '' she said .
`` Say no more , Poppy .
I never wish to see you barefooted , '' replied mamma .
`` Well , you needn't : I'll go and do it in the barn , '' muttered Poppy , as she walked away .
Into the barn she went , and played country girl to her heart's content , in spite of Nelly's warnings .
Nelly never got into scrapes , being a highly virtuous young lady ; but she enjoyed Poppy's pranks , and wept over her misfortunes with sisterly fidelity .
`` Now I'll be a bear , and jump at you as you go by , '' said Poppy , when they were tired of playing steam-engine with the old winnowing machine .
So she got up on a beam ; and Nelly , with a peck measure on her head for a hat , and a stick for a gun , went bear-hunting , and banged away at the swallows , the barrels , and the hencoops , till the bear was ready to eat her .
Presently , with a loud roar , the bear leaped ; but Nelly wasn't eaten that time , for Poppy cried out with pain : `` Oh !
I jumped on a pitchfork , and it's in my foot !
Take it out !
take it out ! ''
Poor little foot !
There was a deep purple hole in the sole , and the blood came , and Poppy fainted away , and Nelly screamed , and mamma ran , and the neighbors rushed in , and there was such a flurry .
Poppy was soon herself again , and lay on the sofa , with Nelly and Cy to amuse her .
`` What did the doctor say to mamma in the other room about me ? ''
whispered Poppy , feeling very important at having such a bustle made on her account .
Nelly sniffed , but said nothing ; Cy , however , spoke up briskly : `` He says you might have lockjaw . ''
`` Is that bad ? ''
asked Poppy gravely .
`` Oh , ain't it , though !
Your mouth shuts up , and you can't open it ; and you have fits and die . ''
`` Always ? ''
said Poppy , looking scared , and feeling of her mouth . ''
` Most always , I guess .
That's why your ma cried , and Nelly keeps kissin ' you . ''
Cy felt sorry , but rather enjoyed the excitement , and was sure , that , if any one ever could escape dying , it would be Poppy , for she always `` came alive '' again after her worst mishaps .
She looked very solemn for a few minutes , and kept opening and shutting her mouth to see if it wasn't stiff .
Presently she said , in a serious tone and with a pensive air : `` Nelly , I'll give you my bead-ring : I shan't want it any more .
And Cy may have the little horse : he lost his tail ; but I put on the lamb's tail , and he is as good as ever .
I wish to give away my things ` fore I die ; and , Nelly , won't you bring me the scissors ? ''
`` What for ? ''
said Nelly , sniffing more than ever .
`` To cut off my hair for mamma .
She'll want it , and I like to cut things . ''
Nelly got the scissors ; and Poppy cut away all she could reach , giving directions about her property while she snipped .
`` I wish papa to have my pictures and my piece of poetry I made .
Give baby my dolly and the quacking duck .
Tell Billy , if he wants my collection of bright buttons , he can have 'em ; and give Hattie the yellow plaster dog , with my love . ''
Here mamma came in with a poultice , and couldn't help laughing , though tears stood in her eyes , as she saw Poppy's cropped head and heard her last wishes .
`` I don't think I shall lose my little girl yet , so we won't talk of it .
But Poppy must keep quiet , and let Nelly wait on her for a few days . ''
`` Are fits bad , mamma ?
and does it hurt much to die ? ''
asked Poppy thoughtfully .
`` If people are good while they live , it is not hard to die , dear , '' said mamma , with a kiss ; and Poppy hugged her , saying softly : `` Then I'll be very good ; so I won't mind , if the jawlock does come . ''
And Poppy was good , -- oh , dreadfully good !
for a week .
Quite an angel was Poppy ; so meek and gentle , so generous and obedient , you really wouldn't have known her .
She loved everybody , forgave her playmates all their sins against her , let Nelly take such of her precious treasures as she liked , and pensively hoped baby would remember her when she was gone .
She hopped about with a crutch , and felt as if she was an object of public interest ; for all the old ladies sent to know how she was , the children looked at her with respectful awe as one set apart and doomed to fits , and Cy continually begged to know if her mouth was stiff .
Poppy didn't die , though she got all ready for it ; and felt rather disappointed when the foot healed , the jaws remained as active as ever , and the fits didn't come .
I think it did her good ; for she never forgot that week , and , though she was near dying several times after , she never was so fit to go as she was then .
`` Burney's making jelly : let's go and get our scrapings , '' said Poppy to Nellie once , when mamma was away .
But Burney was busy and cross , and cooks are not as patient as mothers ; so when the children appeared , each armed with a spoon , and demanded their usual feast , she wouldn't hear of it , and ordered them off .
`` But we only want the scrapings of the pan , Burney : mamma always lets us have them , when we help her make jelly ; don't she , Nelly ? ''
said Poppy , trying to explain the case .
`` Yes ; and makes us our little potful too , '' added Nelly , persuasively .
`` I don't want your help ; so be off .
Your ma can fuss with your pot , if she chooses .
I've no time . '' ''
I think Burney's the crossest woman in the world .
It's mean to eat all the scrapings herself ; isn't it Nelly ? ''
said Poppy , very loud , as the cook shut the door in their faces .
`` Never mind : I know how to pay her , '' she added , in a whisper , as they sat on the stairs bewailing their wrongs .
`` She'll put her old jelly in the big closet , and lock the door ; but we can climb the plum tree , and get in at the window , when she takes her nap . ''
`` Should we dare to eat any ? ''
asked Nelly , timid , but longing for the forbidden fruit . ''
I should ; just as much as ever I like .
It's mamma's jelly , and she won't mind .
I don't care for old cross Burney , '' said Poppy , sliding down the banisters by way of soothing her ruffled spirit .
So when Burney went to her room after dinner , the two rogues climbed in at the window ; and , each taking a jar , sat on the shelf , dipping in their fingers and revelling rapturously .
But Burney wasn't asleep , and , hearing a noise below , crept down to see what mischief was going on .
Pausing in the entry to listen , she heard whispering , clattering of glasses , and smacking of lips in the big closet ; and in a moment knew that her jelly was lost .
She tried the door with her key ; but sly Poppy had bolted it on the inside , and , feeling quite safe , defied Burney from among the jelly-pots , entirely reckless of consequences .
Short-sighted Poppy !
she forgot Cy ; but Burney didn't , and sent him to climb in at the window , and undo the door .
Feeling hurt that the young ladies hadn't asked him to the feast , Cy hardened his heart against them , and delivered them up to the enemy , regardless of Poppy's threats and Nelly's prayers .
`` Poppy proposed it , she broke the jar , and I didn't eat much .
O Burney !
don't hurt her , please , but let me ` splain it to mamma when she comes , '' sobbed Nelly , as Burney seized Poppy , and gave her a good shaking .
`` You go wash your face , Miss Nelly , and leave this naughty , naughty child to me , '' said Burney ; and took Poppy , kicking and screaming , into the little library , where she -- oh , dreadful to relate !
-- gave her a good spanking , and locked her up .
Mamma never whipped , and Poppy was in a great rage at such an indignity .
The minute she was left alone , she looked about to see how she could be revenged .
A solar lamp stood on the table ; and Poppy coolly tipped it over , with a fine smash , calling out to Burney that she 'd have to pay for it , that mamma would be very angry , and that she , Poppy , was going to spoil every thing in the room .
But Burney was gone , and no one came near her .
She kicked the paint off the door , rattled the latch , called Burney a `` pig , '' and Cy `` a badder boy than the man who smothered the little princes in the Tower . ''
Poppy was very fond of that story , and often played it with Nelly and the dolls .
Having relieved her feelings in this way , Poppy rested , and then set about amusing herself .
Observing that the spilt oil made the table shine , she took her handkerchief and polished up the furniture , as she had seen the maids do .
`` Now , that looks nice ; and I know mamma will be pleased 'cause I 'm so tidy , '' she said , surveying her work with pride , when she had thoroughly greased every table , chair , picture-frame , book-back , and ornament in the room .
Plenty of oil still remained ; and Poppy finished off by oiling her hair , till it shone finely , and smelt -- dear me , how it did smell !
If she had been a young whale , it couldn't have been worse .
Poppy wasn't particular about smells ; but she got some in her mouth , and didn't like the taste .
There was no water to wash in ; and her hands , face , and pinafore were in a high state of grease .
She was rather lonely too ; for , though mamma had got home , she didn't come to let Poppy out : so the young rebel thought it was about time to surrender .
She could write pretty well , and was fond of sending penitent notes to mamma , after being naughty : for mamma always answered them so kindly , and was so forgiving , that Poppy's naughtiest mood was conquered by them sooner than by any punishment ; and Poppy kept the notes carefully in a little cover , even after she was grown up .
There was pen , ink , and paper in the room ; so , after various trials , Poppy wrote her note : -- `` dear Mamma .
`` i am sorry i Took bernys gelli .
i have braked The lamP .
The oyl maks A bad smel .
i tHink i wil Bee sik iF i stay HeRe anny More .
i LoVe yoU -- your Trying To Bee GooD popy . ''
When she had finished , she lowered her note by a string , and bobbed it up and down before the parlor window till Nelly saw and took it in .
Every one laughed over it ; for , besides the bad spelling and the funny periods , it was covered with oil-spots , blots , and tear marks ; for Poppy got tender-hearted toward the end , and cried a few very repentant tears when she said , `` I love you ; your trying-to-be-good Poppy . ''
Mamma went up at once , and ordered no further punishment , but a thorough scrubbing ; which Poppy underwent very meekly , though Betsey put soap in her eyes , pulled her hair , and scolded all the time .
They were not allowed any jelly for a long while ; and Cy teased Poppy about her hair-oil till the joke was quite worn out , and even cross Burney was satisfied with the atonement .
When Poppy was eight , she got so very wild that no one could manage her but mamma , and she was ill ; so Poppy was sent away to grandpa's for a visit .
Now , grandpa was a very stately old gentleman , and every one treated him with great respect ; but Poppy wasn't at all afraid , and asked all manner of impolite questions .
`` Grandpa , why don't you have any hair on the top of your head ? ''
-- `` O grandpa !
you do snore so loud when you take naps ! ''
-- `` What makes you turn out your feet so , when you walk ? ''
and such things .
If grandpa hadn't been the best-natured old gentleman in the world , he wouldn't have liked this : but he only laughed at Poppy , especially when she spoke of his legs ; for he was rather proud of them , and always wore long black silk stockings , and told every one that the legs were so handsome an artist put them in a picture of General Washington ; which was quite true , as any one may see when they look at the famous picture in Boston .
Well , Poppy behaved herself respectably for a day or two ; but the house was rather dull , she missed Nelly , wanted to run in the street , and longed to see mamma .
She amused herself as well as she could with picture-books , patchwork , and the old cat ; but , not being a quiet , proper , little Rosamond sort of a child , she got tired of hemming neat pocket-handkerchiefs , and putting her needle carefully away when she had done .
She wanted to romp and shout , and slide down the banisters , and riot about ; so , when she couldn't be quiet another minute , she went up into a great empty room at the top of the house , and cut up all sorts of capers .
Her great delight was to lean out of the window as far as she could , and look at the people in the street , with her head upside down .
It was very dangerous , for a fall would have killed her ; but the danger was the fun , and Poppy hung out till her hands touched the ledge below , and her face was as red as any real poppy's .
She was enjoying herself in this way one day , when an old gentleman , who lived near , came home to dinner , and saw her .
`` What in the world is that hanging out of the colonel's upper window ? ''
said he , putting on his spectacles .
`` Bless my soul !
that child will kill herself .
Hallo , there !
little girl ; get in this minute ! ''
he called to Poppy , flourishing his hat to make her see him .
`` What for ? ''
answered Poppy , staring at him without moving an inch .
`` You'll fall , and break your neck ! ''
screamed the old gentleman .
`` Oh , no , I shan't ! ''
returned Poppy , much flattered by his interest , and hanging out still further .
`` Stop that , instantly , or I'll go in and inform the colonel ! ''
roared the old gentleman , getting angry .
`` I don't care , '' shouted Poppy ; and she didn't , for she knew grandpa wasn't at home .
`` Little gipsy !
I'll settle her , '' muttered the old man , bustling up to the steps , and ringing the bell , as if the house was on fire .
No one was in but the servants ; and , when he 'd told old Emily what the matter was , she went up to `` settle '' Poppy .
But Poppy was already settled , demurely playing with her doll , and looking quite innocent .
Emily scolded ; and Poppy promised never to do it again , if she might stay and play in the big room .
Being busy about dinner , Emily was glad to be rid of her , and left her , to go and tell the old gentleman it was all right .
`` Ain't they crosspatches ? ''
said Poppy to her doll .
`` Never mind , dear : you shall hang out , if I can't .
I guess the old man won't order you in , any way . ''
Full of this idea , Poppy took her long-suffering dolly , and , tying a string to her neck , danced her out of the window .
Now this dolly had been through a great deal .
Her head had been cut off , and put on again ; she had been washed , buried , burnt , torn , soiled , and banged about till she was a mournful object .
Poppy loved her very much ; for she was two feet tall , and had once been very handsome : so her trials only endeared her to her little mamma .
Away she went , skipping and prancing like mad , -- a funny sight , for Poppy had taken off her clothes , and she hadn't a hair on her head .
Poppy went to another window of the room for this performance , because in the opposite house lived five or six children , and she thought they would enjoy the fun .
So they did , and so did the other people ; for it was a boarding-house , and all the people were at home for dinner .
They came to the windows , and looked and laughed at dolly's capers , and Poppy was in high feather at the success of her entertainment .
All of a sudden she saw grandpa coming down the street , hands behind his back , feet turned out , gold-headed cane under his arm , and the handsome legs in the black silk stockings marching along in the most stately manner .
Poppy whisked dolly in before grandpa saw her , and dodged down as he went by .
This made the people laugh again , and grandpa wondered what the joke was .
The minute he went in out flew dolly , dancing more frantically than ever ; and the children shouted so loud that grandpa went to see what the matter was .
The street was empty ; yet there stood the people , staring out and laughing .
Yes ; they were actually looking and laughing at his house ; and he didn't see what there was to laugh at in that highly respectable mansion .
He didn't like it ; and , clapping on his hat , he went out to learn what the matter was .
He looked over at the house , up at the sky , down at the ground , and through the street ; but nothing funny appeared , for Poppy and dolly were hidden again , and the old gentleman was puzzled .
He went in and sat down to watch , feeling rather disturbed .
Presently the fun began again : the children clapped their hands , the people laughed , and every one looked over at the house , in what he thought a very impertinent way .
This made him angry ; and out he rushed a second time , saying , as he marched across the street : `` If those saucy young fellows are making game of me , I'll soon stop it . ''
Up to the door he went , gave a great pull at the bell , and , when the servant came , he demanded why every one was laughing at his house .
One of the young men came and told him , and asked him to come in and see the fun .
Poppy didn't see grandpa go in , for she hid , and when she looked out he was gone : so she boldly began the dancing ; but , in the midst of a lively caper , dolly went bounce into the garden below , for the string fell from Poppy's hand when she suddenly saw grandpa at the window opposite , laughing as heartily as any one at her prank .
She stared at him in a great fright , and looked so amazed that every one enjoyed that joke better than the other ; and poor Poppy didn't hear the last of it for a long time .
Her next performance was to fall into the pond on the Common .
She was driving hoop down the hill , and went so fast she couldn't stop herself ; so splashed into the water , hoop and all .
How dreadful it was to feel the cold waves go over her head , shutting out the sun and air !
The ground was gone , and she could find no place for her feet , and could only struggle and choke , and go down , down , with a loud roaring sound in her ears .
That would have been the end of Poppy , if a little black boy hadn't jumped in and pulled her out .
She was sick and dizzy , and looked like a drowned kitten ; but a kind lady took her home in a carriage .
After that mishap grandpa thought he wouldn't keep her any longer , for fear she should come to some worse harm .
So Miss Poppy was sent home , much to her delight and much to mamma's also ; for no matter where she went , or how naughty she was , mamma was always glad to see the little wanderer back , and to forgive and forget all Poppy's pranks .

A man lay on a pile of new-made hay , in a great barn , looking up at the swallows who darted and twittered above him .
He envied the cheerful little creatures ; for he wasn't a happy man , though he had many friends , much money , and the beautiful gift of writing songs that everybody loved to sing .
He had lost his wife and little child , and would not be comforted ; but lived alone , and went about with such a gloomy face that no one liked to speak to him .
He took no notice of friends and neighbors ; neither used his money for himself nor others ; found no beauty in the world , no happiness anywhere ; and wrote such sad songs it made one's heart ache to sing them .
As he lay alone on the sweet-smelling hay , with the afternoon sunshine streaming in , and the busy birds chirping overhead , he said sadly to himself : `` Happy swallows , I wish I were one of you ; for you have no pains nor sorrows , and your cares are very light .
All summer you live gayly together ; and , when winter comes , you fly away to the lovely South , unseparated still . ''
`` Neighbors , do you hear what that lazy creature down there is saying ? ''
cried a swallow , peeping over the edge of her nest , and addressing several others who sat on a beam near by .
`` We hear , Mrs. Skim ; and quite agree with you that he knows very little about us and our affairs , '' answered one of the swallows with a shrill chirp , like a scornful laugh .
`` We work harder than he does any day .
Did he build his own house , I should like to know ?
Does he get his daily bread for himself ?
How many of his neighbors does he help ?
How much of the world does he see , and who is the happier for his being alive ? ''
`` Cares indeed ! ''
cried another ; `` I wish he 'd undertake to feed and teach my brood .
Much he knows about the anxieties of a parent . ''
And the little mother bustled away to get supper for the young ones , whose bills were always gaping wide .
`` Sorrows we have , too , '' softly said the fourth swallow .
`` He would not envy me , if he knew how my nest fell , and all my children were killed ; how my dear husband was shot , and my old mother died of fatigue on our spring journey from the South . ''
`` Dear neighbor Dart , he would envy you , if he knew how patiently you bear your troubles ; how tenderly you help us with our little ones ; how cheerfully you serve your friends ; how faithfully you love your lost mate ; and how trustfully you wait to meet him again in a lovelier country than the South . ''
As Skim spoke , she leaned down from her nest to kiss her neighbor ; and , as the little beaks met , the other birds gave a grateful and approving murmur , for Neighbor Dart was much beloved by all the inhabitants of Twittertown .
`` I , for my part , don't envy him , '' said Gossip Wing , who was fond of speaking her mind .
`` Men and women call themselves superior beings ; but , upon my word , I think they are vastly inferior to us .
Now , look at that man , and see how he wastes his life .
There never was any one with a better chance for doing good , and being happy ; and yet he mopes and dawdles his time away most shamefully . ''
`` Ah !
he has had a great sorrow , and it is hard to be gay with a heavy heart , an empty home ; so don't be too severe , Sister Wing . ''
And the white tie of the little widow's cap was stirred by a long sigh as Mrs. Dart glanced up at the nook where her nest once stood .
`` No , my dear , I won't ; but really I do get out of patience when I see so much real misery which that man might help , if he 'd only forget himself a little .
It's my opinion he 'd be much happier than he now is , wandering about with a dismal face and a sour temper . ''
`` I quite agree with you ; and I dare say he 'd thank any one for telling him how he may find comfort .
Poor soul !
I wish he could understand me ; for I sympathize with him , and would gladly help him if I could . ''
And , as she spoke , kind-hearted Widow Dart skimmed by him with a friendly chirp , which did comfort him ; for , being a poet , he could understand them , and lay listening , well pleased while the little gossips chattered on together .
`` I am so tied at home just now , that I know nothing of what is going on , except the bits of news Skim brings me ; so I enjoy your chat immensely .
I 'm interested in your views on this subject , and beg you'll tell me what you 'd have that man do to better himself , '' said Mrs. Skim , settling herself on her eggs with an attentive air .
`` Well , my dear , I'll tell you ; for I've seen a deal of the world , and any one is welcome to my experience , '' replied Mrs. Wing , in an important manner ; for she was proud of her `` views , '' and very fond of talking .
`` In my daily flights about the place , I see a great deal of poverty and trouble , and often wish I could lend a hand .
Now , this man has plenty of money and time ; and he might do more good than I can tell , if he 'd only set about it .
Because he is what they call a poet is no reason he should go moaning up and down , as if he had nothing to do but make songs .
We sing , but we work also ; and are wise enough to see the necessity of both , thank goodness ! ''
`` Yes , indeed , we do , '' cried all the birds in a chorus ; for several more had stopped to hear what was going on .
`` Now , what I say is this , '' continued Mrs. Wing impressively .
`` If I were that man , I 'd make myself useful at once .
There is poor little Will getting more and more lame every day , because his mother can't send him where he can be cured .
A trifle of that man's money would do it , and he ought to give it .
Old Father Winter is half starved , alone there in his miserable hovel ; and no one thinks of the good old man .
Why don't that lazy creature take him home , and care for him , the little while he has to live ?
Pretty Nell is working day and night , to support her father , and is too proud to ask help , though her health and courage are going fast .
The man might make hers the gayest heart alive , by a little help .
There in a lonely garret lives a young man studying his life away , longing for books and a teacher .
The man has a library full , and might keep the poor boy from despair by a little help and a friendly word .
He mourns for his own lost baby : I advise him to adopt the orphan whom nobody will own , and who lies wailing all day untended on the poor-house floor .
Yes : if he wants to forget sorrow and find peace , let him fill his empty heart and home with such as these , and life won't seem dark to him any more . ''
`` Dear me !
how well you express yourself , Mrs. Wing ; it's quite a pleasure to hear you ; and I heartily wish some persons could hear you , it would do 'em a deal of good , '' said Mrs. Skim ; while her husband gave an approving nod as he dived off the beam , and vanished through the open doors .
`` I know it would comfort that man to do these things ; for I have tried the same cure in my small way , and found great satisfaction in it , '' began little Madame Dart , in her soft voice ; but Mrs. Wing broke in , saying with a pious expression of countenance : `` I flew into church one day , and sat on the organ enjoying the music ; for every one was singing , and I joined in , though I didn't know the air .
Opposite me were two great tablets with golden letters on them .
I can read a little , thanks to my friend , the learned raven ; and so I spelt out some of the words .
One was , ` Love thy neighbor ; ' and as I sat there , looking down on the people , I wondered how they could see those words week after week , and yet pay so little heed to them .
Goodness knows , I don't consider myself a perfect bird ; far from it ; for I know I am a poor , erring fowl ; but I believe I may say I do love my neighbor , though I am ` an inferior creature . ' ''
And Mrs. Wing bridled up , as if she resented the phrase immensely .
`` Indeed you do , gossip , '' cried Dart and Skim ; for Wing was an excellent bird , in spite of the good opinion she had of herself .
`` Thank you : well , then , such being the known fact , I may give advice on the subject as one having authority ; and , if it were possible , I 'd give that man a bit of my mind . ''
`` You have , madam , you have ; and I shall not forget it .
Thank you , neighbors , and good night , '' said the man , as he left the barn , with the first smile on his face which it had worn for many days .
`` Mercy on us !
I do believe the creature heard every thing we said , '' cried Mrs. Wing , nearly tumbling off the beam , in her surprise .
`` He certainly did ; so I 'm glad I was guarded in my remarks , '' replied Mrs. Skim , laughing at her neighbor's dismay .
`` Dear me !
dear me !
what did I say ? ''
cried Mrs. Wing , in a great twitter .
`` You spoke with more than your usual bluntness , and some of your expressions were rather strong , I must confess ; but I don't think any harm will come of it .
We are of too little consequence for our criticisms or opinions to annoy him , '' said Mrs. Dart consolingly .
`` I don't know that , ma'am , '' returned Mrs. Wing , sharply : for she was much ruffled and out of temper .
`` A cat may look at a king ; and a bird may teach a man , if the bird is the wisest .
He may destroy my nest , and take my life ; but I feel that I have done my duty , and shall meet affliction with a firmness which will be an example to that indolent , ungrateful man . ''
In spite of her boasted firmness , Mrs. Wing dropped her voice , and peeped over the beam , to be sure the man was gone before she called him names ; and then flew away , to discover what he meant to do about it .
For several days , there was much excitement in Twittertown ; for news of what had happened flew from nest to nest , and every bird was anxious to know what revenge the man would take for the impertinent remarks which had been made about him .
Mrs. Wing was in a dreadful state of mind , expecting an assault , and the destruction of her entire family .
Every one blamed her .
Her husband lectured ; the young birds chirped , `` Chatterbox , chatterbox , '' as she passed ; and her best friends were a little cool .
All this made her very meek for a time ; and she scarcely opened her bill , except to eat .
A guard was set day and night , to see if any danger approached ; and a row of swallows might be seen on the ridgepole at all hours .
If any one entered the barn , dozens of little black heads peeped cautiously over the edges of the nests , and there was much flying to and fro with reports and rumors ; for all the birds in the town soon knew that something had happened .
The day after the imprudent conversation , a chimney-swallow came to call on Mrs. Wing ; and , the moment she was seated on the beam , she began : `` My dear creature , I feel for you in your trying position , -- indeed I do , and came over at once to warn you of your danger . ''
`` Mercy on us !
what is coming ? ''
cried Mrs. Wing , covering her brood with trembling wings , and looking quite wild with alarm .
`` Be calm , my friend , and bear with firmness the consequences of your folly , '' replied Mrs. Sooty-back , who didn't like Mrs. Wing , because she prided herself on her family , and rather looked down on chimney-swallows .
`` You know , ma'am , I live at the great house , and am in the way of seeing and hearing all that goes on there .
No fire is lighted in the study now ; but my landlord still sits on the hearth , and I can overhear every word he says .
Last evening , after my darlings were asleep , and my husband gone out , I went down and sat on the andiron , as I often do ; for the fireplace is full of oak boughs , and I can peep out unseen .
My landlord sat there , looking a trifle more cheerful than usual , and I heard him say , in a very decided tone : '' ` I'll catch them , one and all , and keep them here ; that is better than pulling the place down , as I planned at first .
Those swallows little know what they have done ; but I'll show them I don't forget . ' ''
On hearing this a general wail arose , and Mrs. Wing fainted entirely away .
Madam Sooty-back was quite satisfied with the effect she had produced , and departed , saying loftily : `` I 'm sorry for you , Mrs. Wing , and forgive your rude speech about my being related to chimney-sweeps .
One can't expect good manners from persons brought up in mud houses , and entirely shut out from good society .
If I hear any thing more , I'll let you know . ''
Away she flew ; and poor Mrs. Wing would have had another fit , if they hadn't tickled her with a feather , and fanned her so violently that she was nearly blown off her nest by the breeze they raised .
`` What shall we do ? ''
she cried .
`` Nothing , but wait .
I dare say , Mrs. Sooty-back is mistaken ; at any rate , we can't get away without leaving our children , for they can't fly yet .
Let us wait , and see what happens .
If the worst comes , we shall have done our duty , and will all die together . ''
As no one could suggest any thing better , Mrs. Dart's advice was taken , and they waited .
On the afternoon of the same day , Dr. Banks , a sand-swallow , who lived in a subterranean village over by the great sand-bank , looked in to see Mrs. Wing , and cheered her by the following bit of news : `` The man was down at the poor-house to-day , and took away little Nan , the orphan baby .
I saw him carry her to Will's mother , and heard him ask her to take care of it for a time .
He paid her well , and she seemed glad to do it ; for Will needs help , and now he can have it .
An excellent arrangement , I think .
Bless me , ma'am !
what's the matter ?
Your pulse is altogether too fast , and you look feverish . ''
No wonder the doctor looked surprised ; for Mrs. Wing suddenly gave a skip , and flapped her wings , with a shrill chirp , exclaiming , as she looked about her triumphantly : `` Now , who was right ?
Who has done good , not harm , by what you call ` gossip ' ?
Who has been a martyr , and patiently borne all kinds of blame , injustice , and disrespect ?
Yes , indeed !
the man saw the sense of my words ; he took my advice ; he will show his gratitude by some good turn yet ; and , if half a dozen poor souls are helped , it will be my doing , and mine alone . ''
Here she had to stop for breath ; and her neighbors all looked at one another , feeling undecided whether to own they were wrong , or to put Mrs. Wing down .
Every one twittered and chirped , and made a great noise ; but no one would give up , and all went to roost in a great state of uncertainty .
But , the next day , it became evident that Mrs. Wing was right ; for Major Bumble-bee came buzzing in to tell them that old Daddy Winter's hut was empty , and his white head had been seen in the sunny porch of the great house .
After this the swallows gave in ; and , as no harm came to them , they had a jubilee in honor of the occasion .
Mrs. Wing was president , and received a vote of thanks for the good she had done , and the credit she had bestowed upon the town by her wisdom and courage .
She was much elated by all this ; but her fright had been of service , and she bore her honors more meekly than one would have supposed .
To be sure , she cut Mrs. Sooty-back when they met ; assumed an injured air , when some of her neighbors passed her ; and said , `` I told you so , '' a dozen times a day to her husband , who got so many curtain lectures that he took to sleeping on the highest rafter , pretending that the children's noise disturbed him .
All sorts of charming things happened after that , and such a fine summer never was known before ; for not only did the birds rejoice , but people also .
A good spirit seemed to haunt the town , leaving help and happiness wherever it passed .
Some unseen hand scattered crumbs over the barn floor , and left food at many doors .
No dog or boy or gun marred the tranquillity of the birds , insects , and flowers who lived on the great estate .
No want , care , or suffering , that love or money could prevent , befell the poor folk whose cottages stood near the old house .
Sunshine and peace seemed to reign there ; for its gloomy master was a changed man now , and the happiness he earned for himself , by giving it to others , flowed out in beautiful , blithe songs , and went singing away into the world , making him friends , and bringing him honor in high places as well as low .
He did not forget the wife and little child whom he had loved so well ; but he mourned no longer , for cheerful daisies grew above their graves , and he knew that he should meet them in the lovely land where death can never come .
So , while he waited for that happy time to come , he made his life a cheery song , -- as every one may do , if they will ; and went about dropping kind words and deeds as silently and sweetly as the sky drops sunshine and dew .
Every one was his friend , but his favorites were the swallows .
Every day he went to see them , carrying grain and crumbs , hearing their chat , sharing their joys and sorrows , and never tiring of their small friendship ; for to them , he thought , he owed all the content now his .
When autumn leaves were red , and autumn winds blew cold , the inhabitants of Twittertown prepared for their journey to the South .
They lingered longer than usual this year , feeling sorry to leave their friend .
But the fields were bare , the frosts began to pinch , and the young ones longed to see the world ; so they must go .
The day they started , the whole flock flew to the great house , to say good-by .
Some dived and darted round and round it , some hopped to and fro on the sere lawn , some perched on the chimney-tops , and some clung to the window ledges ; all twittering a loving farewell .
Chirp , Dart , and Wing peeped everywhere , and everywhere found something to rejoice over .
In a cosey room , by a bright fire , sat Daddy Winter and Nell's old father , telling stories of their youth , and basking in the comfortable warmth .
In the study , surrounded by the books he loved , was the poor young man , happy as a king now , and learning many things which no book could teach him ; for he had found a friend .
Then , down below was Will's mother , working like a bee ; for she was housekeeper , and enjoyed her tasks as much as any mother-bird enjoys filling the little mouths of her brood .
Close by was pretty Nell , prettier than ever now ; for her heavy care was gone , and she sung as she sewed , thinking of the old father , whom nothing could trouble any more .
But the pleasantest sight the three gossips saw was the man with Baby Nan on his arm and Will at his side , playing in the once dreary nursery .
How they laughed and danced !
for Will was up from his bed at last , and hopped nimbly on his crutches , knowing that soon even they would be unneeded .
Little Nan was as plump and rosy as a baby should be , and babbled like a brook , as the man went to and fro , cradling her in his strong arms , feeling as if his own little daughter had come back when he heard the baby voice call him father .
`` Ah , how sweet it is ! ''
cried Mrs. Dart , glad to see that he had found comfort for his grief .
`` Yes ; indeed : it does one's heart good to see such a happy family , '' added Mrs. Skim , who was a very motherly bird .
`` I don't wish to boast ; but I will say that I am satisfied with my summer's work , and go South feeling that I leave an enviable reputation behind me . ''
And Mrs. Wing plumed herself with an air of immense importance , as she nodded and bridled from her perch on the window-sill .
The man saw the three , and hastened to feed them for the last time , knowing that they were about to go .
Gratefully they ate , and chirped their thanks ; and then , as they flew away , the little gossips heard their friend singing his good-by : `` Swallow , swallow , neighbor swallow , Starting on your autumn flight , Pause a moment at my window , Twitter softly your good-night ; For the summer days are over , All your duties are well done , And the happy homes you builded Have grown empty , one by one .
`` Swallow , swallow , neighbor swallow , Are you ready for your flight ?
Are all the feather cloaks completed ?
Are the little caps all right ?
Are the young wings strong and steady For the journey through the sky ?
Come again in early spring-time ; And till then , good-by , good-by ! ''

Up in the light-house tower lived Davy , with Old Dan the keeper .
Most little boys would have found it very lonely ; but Davy had three friends , and was as happy as the day was long .
One of Davy's friends was the great lamp , which was lighted at sunset , and burnt all night , to guide the ships into the harbor .
To Dan it was only a lamp ; but to the boy it seemed a living thing , and he loved and tended it faithfully .
Every day he helped Dan clear the big wick , polish the brass work , and wash the glass lantern which protected the flame .
Every evening he went up to see it lighted , and always fell asleep , thinking , `` No matter how dark or wild the night , my good Shine will save the ships that pass , and burn till morning . ''
Davy's second friend was Nep , the Newfoundland , who was washed ashore from a wreck , and had never left the island since .
Nep was rough and big , but had such a loyal and loving heart that no one could look in his soft brown eyes and not trust him .
He followed Davy's steps all day , slept at his feet all night , and more than once had saved his life when Davy fell among the rocks , or got caught by the rising tide .
But the dearest friend of all was a sea-gull .
Davy found him , with a broken wing , and nursed him carefully till he was well ; then let him go , though he was very fond of `` Little Gulliver , '' as he called him in fun .
But the bird never forgot the boy , and came daily to talk with him , telling all manner of wild stories about his wanderings by land and sea , and whiling away many an hour that otherwise would have been very lonely .
Old Dan was Davy's uncle , -- a grim , gray man , who said little , did his work faithfully , and was both father and mother to Davy , who had no parents , and no friends beyond the island .
That was his world ; and he led a quiet life among his playfellows , -- the winds and waves .
He seldom went to the main land , three miles away ; for he was happier at home .
He watched the sea-anemones open below the water , looking like fairy-plants , brilliant and strange .
He found curious and pretty shells , and sometimes more valuable treasures , washed up from some wreck .
He saw little yellow crabs , ugly lobsters , and queer horse-shoes with their stiff tails .
Sometimes a whale or a shark swam by , and often sleek black seals came up to bask on the warm rocks .
He gathered lovely sea-weeds of all kinds , from tiny red cobwebs to great scalloped leaves of kelp , longer than himself .
He heard the waves dash and roar unceasingly ; the winds howl or sigh over the island ; and the gulls scream shrilly as they dipped and dived , or sailed away to follow the ships that came and went from all parts of the world .
With Nep and Gulliver he roamed about his small kingdom , never tired of its wonders ; or , if storms raged , he sat up in the tower , safe and dry , watching the tumult of sea and sky .
Often in long winter nights he lay awake , listening to the wind and rain , that made the tower rock with their violence ; but he never was afraid , for Nep nestled at his feet , Dan sat close by , and overhead the great lamp shone far out into the night , to cheer and guide all wanderers on the sea .
Close by the tower hung the fog-bell , which , being wound up , would ring all night , warningly .
One day Dan found that something among the chains was broken ; and , having vainly tried to mend it , he decided to go to the town , and get what was needed .
He went once a week , usually , and left Davy behind ; for in the daytime there was nothing to do , and the boy was not afraid to stay .
`` A heavy fog is blowing up : we shall want the bell to-night , and I must be off at once .
I shall be back before dark , of course ; so take care of yourself , boy , '' said Dan .
Away went the little boat ; and the fog shut down over it , as if a misty wall had parted Davy from his uncle .
As it was dull weather , he sat and read for an hour or two ; then fell asleep , and forgot everything till Nep's cold nose on his hand waked him up .
It was nearly dark ; and , hoping to find Dan had come , he ran down to the landing-place .
But no boat was there , and the fog was thicker than ever .
Dan never had been gone so long before , and Davy was afraid something had happened to him .
For a few minutes he was in great trouble ; then he cheered up , and took courage .
`` It is sunset by the clock ; so I'll light the lamp , and , if Dan is lost in the fog , it will guide him home , '' said Davy .
Up he went , and soon the great star shone out above the black-topped light-house , glimmering through the fog , as if eager to be seen .
Davy had his supper , but no Dan came .
He waited hour after hour , and waited all in vain .
The fog thickened , till the lamp was hardly seen ; and no bell rung to warn the ships of the dangerous rocks .
Poor Davy could not sleep , but all night long wandered from the tower to the door , watching , calling , and wondering ; but Dan did not come .
At sunrise he put out the light , and , having trimmed it for the next night , ate a little breakfast , and roved about the island hoping to see some sign of Dan .
The sun drew up the fog at last ; and he could see the blue bay , the distant town , and a few fishing-boats going out to sea .
But nowhere was the island-boat with gray Old Dan in it ; and Davy's heart grew heavier and heavier , as the day passed , and still no one came .
In the afternoon Gulliver appeared : to him Davy told his trouble , and the three friends took counsel together .
`` There is no other boat ; and I couldn't row so far , if there was : so I can't go to find Dan , '' said David sorrowfully .
`` I 'd gladly swim to town , if I could ; but it's impossible to do it , with wind and tide against me .
I've howled all day , hoping some one would hear me ; but no one does , and I 'm discouraged , '' said Nep , with an anxious expression .
`` I can do something for you ; and I will , with all my heart .
I'll fly to town , if I don't see him in the bay , and try to learn what has become of Dan .
Then I'll come and tell you , and we will see what is to be done next .
Cheer up , Davy dear : I'll bring you tidings , if any can be had . ''
With these cheerful words , away sailed Gulliver , leaving Nep and his master to watch and wait again .
The wind blew hard , and the broken wing was not quite well yet , else Gulliver would have been able to steer clear of a boat that came swiftly by .
A sudden gust drove the gull so violently against the sail that he dropped breathless into the boat ; and a little girl caught him , before he could recover himself .
`` Oh , what a lovely bird !
See his black cap , his white breast , dove-colored wings , red legs and bill , and soft , bright eyes .
I wanted a gull ; and I'll keep this one , for I don't think he is much hurt . ''
Poor Gulliver struggled , pecked and screamed ; but little Dora held him fast , and shut him in a basket till they reached the shore .
Then she put him in a lobster pot , -- a large wooden thing , something like a cage , -- and left him on the lawn , where he could catch glimpses of the sea , and watch the light-house tower , as he sat alone in this dreadful prison .
If Dora had known the truth , she would have let him go , and done her best to help him ; but she could not understand his speech , as Davy did , for very few people have the power of talking with birds , beasts , insects , and plants .
To her , his prayers and cries were only harsh screams ; and , when he sat silent , with drooping head and ruffled feathers , she thought he was sleepy : but he was mourning for Davy , and wondering what his little friend would do .
For three long days and nights he was a prisoner , and suffered much .
The house was full of happy people , but no one took pity upon him .
Ladies and gentlemen talked learnedly about him ; boys poked and pulled him ; little girls admired him , and begged his wings for their hats , if he died .
Cats prowled about his cage ; dogs barked at him ; hens cackled over him ; and a shrill canary jeered at him from the pretty pagoda in which it hung , high above danger .
In the evening there was music ; and the poor bird's heart ached as the sweet sounds came to him , reminding him of the airier melodies he loved .
Through the stillness of the night , he heard the waves break on the shore ; the wind came singing up from the sea ; the moon shone kindly on him , and he saw the water-fairies dancing on the sand .
But for three days no one spoke a friendly word to him , and he pined away with a broken heart .
On the fourth night , when all was quiet , little Gulliver saw a black shadow steal across the lawn , and heard a soft voice say to him : `` Poor bird , you'll die , if yer stays here ; so I ` se gwine to let yer go .
Specs little missy'll scold dreffle ; but Moppet'll take de scoldin for yer .
Hi , dere !
you is peart nuff now , kase you's in a hurry to go ; but jes wait till I gits de knots out of de string dat ties de door , and den away you flies . ''
`` But , dear , kind Moppet , won't you be hurt for doing this ?
Why do you care so much for me ?
I can only thank you , and fly away . ''
As Gulliver spoke , he looked up at the little black face bent over him , and saw tears in the child's sad eyes ; but she smiled at him , and shook her fuzzy head , as she whispered kindly : `` I don't want no tanks , birdie : I loves to let you go , kase you's a slave , like I was once ; and it's a dreffle hard ting , I knows .
I got away , and I means you shall .
I ` se watched you , deary , all dese days ; and I tried to come ` fore , but dey didn't give me no chance . ''
`` Do you live here ?
I never see you playing with the other children , '' said the gull , as Moppet's nimble fingers picked away at the knots .
`` Yes : I lives here , and helps de cook .
You didn't see me , kase I never plays ; de chilen don't like me . ''
`` Why not ? ''
asked Gulliver , wondering .
`` I ` se black , '' said Moppet , with a sob .
`` But that's silly in them , '' cried the bird , who had never heard of such a thing .
`` Color makes no difference ; the peeps are gray , the seals black , and the crabs yellow ; but we don't care , and are all friends .
It is very unkind to treat you so .
Haven't you any friends to love you , dear ? ''
`` Nobody in de world keres fer me .
Dey sold me way from my mammy when I was a baby , and I ` se knocked roun eber since .
De oder chilen has folks to lub an kere fer em , but Moppet's got no friends ; '' and here the black eyes grew so dim with tears that the poor child couldn't see that the last knot was out .
Gulliver saw it , and , pushing up the door , flew from his prison with a glad cry ; and , hopping into Moppet's hand , looked into the little dark face with such grateful confidence that it cleared at once , and the brightest smile it had worn for months broke over it as the bird nestled its soft head against her cheek , saying gently : `` I 'm your friend , dear ; I love you , and I never shall forget what you have done for me to-night .
How can I thank you before I go ? ''
For a minute , Moppet could only hug the bird , and cry ; for these were the first kind words she had heard for a long time , and they went straight to her lonely little heart .
`` O my deary !
I ` se paid by dem words , and I don't want no tanks .
Jes lub me , and come sometimes to see me ef you can , it's so hard livin ' in dis yere place .
I don't tink I'll bar it long .
I wish I was a bird to fly away , or a oyster safe in de mud , and free to do as I's a mind . ''
`` I wish you could go and live with Davy on the island ; he is so kind , so happy , and as free as the wind .
Can't you get away , Moppet ? ''
whispered Gulliver , longing to help this poor , friendless little soul .
He told her all his story ; and they agreed that he should fly at once to the island , and see if Dan was there ; if not , he was to come back , and Moppet would try to get some one to help find him .
When this was done , Davy and Dan were to take Moppet , if they could , and make her happy on the island .
Full of hope and joy , Gulliver said good-by , and spread his wings ; but , alas for the poor bird !
he was too weak to fly .
For three days he had hardly eaten any thing , had found no salt water to bathe in , and had sat moping in the cage till his strength was all gone .
`` What shall I do ?
what shall I do ? ''
he cried , fluttering his feeble wings , and running to and fro in despair .
`` Hush , birdie , I'll take kere ob you till you's fit to fly .
I knows a nice , quiet little cove down yonder , where no one goes ; and dare you kin stay till you's better .
I'll come and feed you , and you kin paddle , and rest , and try your wings , safe and free , honey . ''
As Moppet spoke , she took Gulliver in her arms , and stole away in the dim light , over the hill , down to the lonely spot where nothing went but the winds and waves , the gulls , and little Moppet , when hard words and blows made heart and body ache .
Here she left the bird , and , with a loving `` Good-night , '' crept home to her bed in the garret , feeling as rich as a queen , and much happier ; for she had done a kind thing , and made a friend .
Next day , a great storm came : the wind blew a hurricane , the rain poured , and the sea thundered on the coast .
If he had been well , Gulliver wouldn't have minded at all ; but , being sick and sad , he spent an anxious day , sitting in a cranny of the rock , thinking of Davy and Moppet .
It was so rough , even in the cove , that he could neither swim nor fly , so feeble was he ; and could find no food but such trifles as he could pick up among the rocks .
At nightfall the storm raged fiercer than ever , and he gave up seeing Moppet ; for he was sure she wouldn't come through the pelting rain just to feed him .
So he put his head under his wing , and tried to sleep ; but he was so wet and weak , so hungry and anxious , no sleep came .
`` What has happened to Davy alone on the island all this while ?
He will fall ill with loneliness and trouble ; the lamp won't be lighted , the ships will be wrecked , and many people will suffer .
O Dan , Dan , if we could only find you , how happy we should be ! ''
As Gulliver spoke , a voice cried through the darkness : `` Is you dere , honey ? ''
and Moppet came climbing over the rocks , with a basket full of such bits as she could get .
`` Poor birdie , is you starvin ' ?
Here , jes go at dis , and joy yourself .
Dere's fish and tings I tink you 'd like .
How is you now , dear ? ''
`` Better , Moppet ; but , it's so stormy , I can't get to Davy ; and I worry about him , '' began Gulliver , pecking away at his supper : but he stopped suddenly , for a faint sound came up from below , as if some one called , `` Help , help ! ''
`` Hi !
what's dat ? ''
said Moppet , listening .
`` Davy , Davy ! ''
called the voice .
`` It's Dan .
Hurrah , we've found him ! ''
and Gulliver dived off the rock so reckless that he went splash into the water .
But that didn't matter to him ; and he paddled away , like a little steamer with all the engines in full blast .
Down by the sea-side , between two stones , lay Dan , so bruised and hurt he couldn't move , and so faint with hunger and pain he could hardly speak .
As soon as Gulliver called , Moppet scrambled down , and fed the poor man with her scraps , brought him rain-water from a crevice near by , and bound up his wounded head with her little apron .
Then Dan told them how his boat had been run down by a ship in the fog ; how he was hurt , and cast ashore in the lonely cove ; how he had lain there half dead , for no one heard his shouts , and he couldn't move ; how the storm brought him back to life , when he was almost gone , and the sound of Moppet's voice told him help was near .
How glad they all were then !
Moppet danced for joy ; Gulliver screamed and flapped his wings ; and Dan smiled , in spite of pain , to think he should see Davy again .
He couldn't understand Gulliver ; but Moppet told him all the story , and , when he heard it , he was more troubled for the boy than for himself .
`` What will he do ?
He may get killed or scared , or try to come ashore .
Is the lamp alight ? ''
he cried , trying to move , and falling back with a moan of pain .
Gulliver flew up to the highest rock , and looked out across the dark sea .
Yes , there it was , -- the steady star shining through the storm , and saying plainly , `` All is well . ''
`` Thank heaven !
if the lamp is burning , Davy is alive .
Now , how shall I get to him ? ''
said Dan .
`` Never you fret , massa : Moppet'll see to dat .
You jes lay still till I comes .
Dere's folks in de house as'll tend to you , ef I tells em who and where you is . ''
Off she ran , and soon came back with help .
Dan was taken to the house , and carefully tended ; Moppet wasn't scolded for being out so late ; and , in the flurry , no one thought of the gull .
Next morning , the cage was found blown over , and every one fancied the bird had flown away .
Dora was already tired of him ; so he was soon forgotten by all but Moppet .
In the morning it was clear ; and Gulliver flew gladly to the tower where Davy still watched and waited , with a pale face and heavy heart , for the three days had been very hard to bear , and , but for Nep and Shine , he would have lost his courage entirely .
Gulliver flew straight into his bosom , and , sitting there , told his adventures ; while Davy laughed and cried , and Nep stood by , wagging his tail for joy , while his eyes were full of sympathy .
The three had a very happy hour together , and then came a boat to carry Davy ashore , while another keeper took charge of the light till Dan was well .
Nobody ever knew the best part of the story but Moppet , Davy , and Gulliver .
Other people didn't dream that the boy's pet gull had any thing to do with the finding of the man , or the good fortune that came to Moppet .
While Dan lay sick , she tended him , like a loving little daughter ; and , when he was well , he took her for his own .
He did not mind the black skin : he only saw the loneliness of the child , the tender heart , the innocent , white soul ; and he was as glad to be a friend to her as if she had been as blithe and pretty as Dora .
It was a happy day when Dan and Davy , Moppet , Gulliver , and Nep sailed away to the island ; for that was still to be their home , with stout young Ben to help .
The sun was setting ; and they floated through waves as rosy as the rosy sky .
A fresh wind filled the sail , and ruffled Gulliver's white breast as he sat on the mast-head crooning a cheery song to himself .
Dan held the tiller , and Davy lay at his feet , with Nep bolt upright beside him ; but the happiest face of all was Moppet's .
Kneeling at the bow , she leaned forward , with her lips apart , her fuzzy hair blown back , and her eyes fixed on the island which was to be her home .
Like a little black figure-head of Hope , she leaned and looked , as the boat flew on , bearing her away from the old life into the new .
As the sun sunk , out shone the lamp with sudden brightness , as if the island bade them welcome .
Dan furled the sail ; and , drifting with the tide , they floated in , till the waves broke softly on the shore , and left them safe at home .
IX .
THE WHALE's STORY .
Freddy sat thinking on the seat under the trees .
It was a wide , white seat , about four feet long , sloping from the sides to the middle , something like a swing ; and was not only comfortable but curious , for it was made of a whale's bone .
Freddy often sat there , and thought about it for he was very much interested in it , and nobody could tell him any thing of it , except that it had been there a long time .
`` Poor old whale , I wonder how you got here , where you came from , and if you were a good and happy creature while you lived , '' said Freddy , patting the old bone with his little hand .
It gave a great creak ; and a sudden gust of air stirred the trees , as if some monster groaned and sighed .
Then Freddy heard a strange voice , very loud , yet cracked and queer , as if some one tried to talk with a broken jaw .
`` Freddy ahoy ! ''
called the big voice .
`` I'll tell you all about it ; for you are the only person who ever pitied me , or cared to know any thing about me . ''
`` Why , can you talk ? ''
asked Freddy , very much astonished and a little frightened .
`` Of course I can , for this is a part of my jaw-bone .
I should talk better if my whole mouth was here ; but I 'm afraid my voice would then be so loud you wouldn't be able to hear it .
I don't think any one but you would understand me , any way .
It isn't every one that can , you know ; but you are a thoughtful little chap , with a lively fancy as well as a kind heart , so you shall hear my story . ''
`` Thank you , I should like it very much , if you would please to speak a little lower , and not sigh ; for your voice almost stuns me , and your breath nearly blows me away , '' said Freddy .
`` I'll try : but it's hard to suit my tone to such a mite , or to help groaning when I think of my sad fate ; though I deserve it , perhaps , '' said the bone , more gently .
`` Were you a naughty whale ? ''
asked Freddy .
`` I was proud , very proud , and foolish ; and so I suffered for it .
I dare say you know a good deal about us .
I see you reading often , and you seem a sensible child . ''
`` No : I haven't read about you yet , and I only know that you are the biggest fish there is , '' replied Freddy .
The bone creaked and shook , as if it was laughing , and said in a tone that showed it hadn't got over its pride yet : `` You 're wrong there , my dear ; we are not fishes at all , though stupid mortals have called us so for a long time .
We can't live without air ; we have warm , red blood ; and we don't lay eggs , -- so we are not fishes .
We certainly are the biggest creatures in the sea and out of it .
Why , bless you !
some of us are nearly a hundred feet long ; our tails alone are fifteen or twenty feet wide ; the biggest of us weigh five hundred thousand pounds , and have in them the fat , bone , and muscle of a thousand cattle .
The lower jaw of one of my family made an arch large enough for a man on horseback to ride under easily , and my cousins of the sperm-family usually yield eighty barrels of oil . ''
`` Gracious me , what monsters you are ! ''
cried Freddy , taking a long breath , while his eyes got bigger and bigger as he listened .
`` Ah !
you may well say so ; we are a very wonderful and interesting family .
All our branches are famous in one way or another .
Fin-backs , sperms , and rights are the largest ; then come the norwhals , the dolphins , and porpoises , -- which last , I dare say , you've seen . ''
`` Yes : but tell me about the big ones , please .
Which were you ? ''
cried Freddy .
`` I was a Right whale , from Greenland .
The Sperms live in warm places ; but to us the torrid zone is like a sea of fire , and we don't pass it .
Our cousins do ; and go to the East Indies by way of the North Pole , which is more than your famous Parrys and Franklins could do . ''
`` I don't know about that ; but I 'd like to hear what you eat , and how you live , and why you came here , '' said Freddy , who thought the whale rather inclined to boast .
`` Well , we haven't got any teeth , -- our branch of the family ; and we live on creatures so small , that you could only see them with a microscope .
Yes , you may stare ; but it's true , my dear .
The roofs of our mouths are made of whalebone , in broad pieces from six to eight feet long , arranged one against the other ; so they make an immense sieve .
The tongue , which makes about five barrels of oil , lies below , like a cushion of white satin .
When we want to feed , we rush through the water , which is full of the little things we eat , and catch them in our sieve , spurting the water through two holes in our heads .
Then we collect the food with our tongue , and swallow it ; for , though we are so big , our throats are small .
We roam about in the ocean , leaping and floating , feeding and spouting , flying from our enemies , or fighting bravely to defend our young ones . ''
`` Have you got any enemies ?
I shouldn't think you could have , you are so large , '' said Freddy .
`` But we have , and many too , -- three who attack us in the water , and several more that men use against us .
The killer , the sword-fish , and the thrasher trouble us at home .
The killer fastens to us , and won't be shaken off till he has worried us to death ; the sword-fish stabs us with his sword ; and the thrasher whips us to death with his own slender , but strong and heavy body .
Then , men harpoon us , shoot or entrap us ; and make us into oil and candles and seats , and stiffening for gowns and umbrellas , '' said the bone , in a tone of scorn .
Freddy laughed at the idea , and asked , `` How about candles ?
I know about oil and seats and umbrellas ; but I thought candles were made of wax . ''
`` I can't say much on that point : I only know that , when a sperm whale is killed , they make oil out of the fat part as they do of ours ; but the Sperms have a sort of cistern in their heads , full of stuff like cream , and rose-colored .
They cut a hole in the skull , and dip it out ; and sometimes get sixteen or twenty barrels .
This is made into what you call spermaceti candles .
We don't have any such nonsense about us ; but the Sperms always were a light-headed set . ''
Here the bone laughed , in a cracked sort of roar , which sent Freddy flying off the seat on to the grass , where he stayed , laughing also , though he didn't see any joke .
`` I beg your pardon , child .
It isn't often that I laugh ; for I've a heavy heart somewhere , and have known trouble enough to make me as sad as the sea is sometimes . ''
`` Tell me about your troubles ; I pity you very much , and like to hear you talk , '' said Freddy , kindly .
`` Unfortunately we are very easily killed , in spite of our size ; and have various afflictions besides death .
We grow blind ; our jaws are deformed sometimes ; our tails , with which we swim , get hurt ; and we have dyspepsia . ''
Freddy shouted at that ; for he knew what dyspepsia was , because at the sea-side there were many sickly people who were always groaning about that disease .
`` It's no laughing matter , I assure you , '' said the whale's bone .
`` We suffer a great deal , and get thin and weak and miserable .
I've sometimes thought that's the reason we are blue . ''
`` Perhaps , as you have no teeth , you don't chew your food enough , and so have dyspepsia , like an old gentleman I know , '' said Freddy .
`` That's not the reason ; my cousins , the Sperms , have teeth , and dyspepsia also . ''
`` Are they blue ? ''
`` No , black and white .
But I was going to tell you my troubles .
My father was harpooned when I was very young , and I remember how bravely he died .
The Rights usually run away when they see a whaler coming ; not from cowardice , -- oh , dear , no !
-- but discretion .
The Sperms stay and fight , and are killed off very fast ; for they are a very headstrong family .
We fight when we can't help it ; and my father died like a hero .
They chased him five hours before they stuck him ; he tried to get away , and dragged three or four boats and sixteen hundred fathoms of line from eight in the morning till four at night .
Then they got out another line , and he towed the ship itself for more than an hour .
There were fifteen harpoons in him : he chewed up a boat , pitched several men overboard , and damaged the vessel , before they killed him .
Ah !
he was a father to be proud of . ''
Freddy sat respectfully silent for a few minutes , as the old bone seemed to feel a great deal on the subject .
Presently he went on again : `` The Sperms live in herds ; but the Rights go in pairs , and are very fond of one another .
My wife was a charming creature , and we were very happy , till one sad day , when she was playing with our child , -- a sweet little whaleling only twelve feet long , and weighing but a ton , -- my son was harpooned .
His mamma , instead of flying , wrapped her fins round him , and dived as far as the line allowed .
Then she came up , and dashed at the boats in great rage and anguish , entirely regardless of the danger she was in .
The men struck my son , in order to get her , and they soon succeeded ; but even then , in spite of her suffering , she did not try to escape , but clung to little Spouter till both were killed .
Alas !
alas ! ''
Here the poor bone creaked so dismally , Freddy feared it would tumble to pieces , and bring the story to an end too soon .
`` Don't think of those sorrowful things , '' he said ; `` tell me how you came to be here .
Were you harpooned ? ''
`` Not I ; for I've been very careful all my life to keep out of the way of danger : I 'm not like one of my relations , who attacked a ship , gave it such a dreadful blow that he made a great hole , the water rushed in , and the vessel was wrecked .
But he paid dearly for that prank ; for a few months afterward another ship harpooned him very easily , finding two spears still in him , and a wound in his head .
I forgot to mention , that the Sperms have fine ivory teeth , and make ambergris , -- a sort of stuff that smells very nice , and costs a great deal .
I give you these little facts about my family , as you seem interested , and it's always well to improve the minds of young people . ''
`` You are very kind ; but will you be good enough to tell about yourself ? ''
said Freddy again ; for the bone seemed to avoid that part of the story , as if he didn't want to tell it .
`` Well , if I must , I must ; but I 'm sorry to confess what a fool I've been .
You know what coral is , don't you ? ''
`` No , '' said Freddy , wondering why it asked .
`` Then I must tell you , I suppose .
There is a bit in the house there , -- that rough , white , stony stuff on the table in the parlor .
It's full of little holes , you know .
Well , those holes are the front doors of hundreds of little polypes , or coral worms , who build the great branches of coral , and live there .
They are of various shapes and colors , -- some like stars ; some fine as a thread , and blue or yellow ; others like snails and tiny lobsters .
Some people say the real coral-makers are shaped like little oblong bags of jelly , closed at one end , the other open , with six or eight little feelers , like a star , all around it .
The other creatures are boarders or visitors : these are the real workers , and , when they sit in their cells and put out their feelers , they make all manner of lovely colors under the water , -- crimson , green , orange , and violet .
But if they are taken up or touched , the coral people go in doors , and the beautiful hues disappear .
They say there are many coral reefs and islands built by these industrious people , in the South Seas ; but I can't go there to see , and I am contented with those I find in the northern latitudes .
I knew such a community of coral builders , and used to watch them long ago , when they began to work .
It was a charming spot , down under the sea ; for all manner of lovely plants grew there ; splendid fishes sailed to and fro ; wonderful shells lay about ; crimson and yellow prawns , long , gliding green worms , and purple sea-urchins , were there .
When I asked the polypes what they were doing , and they answered , ` Building an island , ' I laughed at them ; for the idea that these tiny , soft atoms could make any thing was ridiculous .
` You may roar ; but you'll see that we are right , if you live long enough , ' said they .
` Our family have built thousands of islands and long reefs , that the sea can't get over , strong as it is . '
That amused me immensely ; but I wouldn't believe it , and laughed more than ever . ''
`` It does seem very strange , '' said Freddy , looking at the branch of coral which he had brought out to examine .
`` Doesn't it ?
and isn't it hard to believe ?
I used to go , now and then , to see how the little fellows got on , and always found them hard at it .
For a long while there was only a little plant without leaves , growing slowly taller and taller ; for they always build upward toward the light .
By and by , the small shrub was a tree : flying-fish roosted in its branches ; sea-cows lay under its shadow ; and thousands of jolly little polypes lived and worked in its white chambers .
I was glad to see them getting on so well ; but still I didn't believe in the island story , and used to joke them about their ambition .
They were very good-natured , and only answered me , ` Wait a little longer , Friend Right . '
I had my own affairs to attend to ; so , for years at a time , I forgot the coral-workers , and spent most of my life up Greenland way , for warm climates don't agree with my constitution .
When I came back , after a long absence , I was astonished to see the tree grown into a large umbrella-shaped thing , rising above the water .
Sea-weed had washed up and clung there ; sea-birds had made nests there ; land-birds and the winds had carried seeds there , which had sprung up ; trunks of trees had been cast there by the sea ; lizards , insects , and little animals came with the trees , and were the first inhabitants ; and , behold !
it was an island . ''
`` What did you say then ? ''
asked Freddy .
`` I was angry , and didn't want to own that I was wrong ; so I insisted that it wasn't a real island , without people on it .
` Wait a little longer , ' answered the polypes ; and went on , building broader and broader foundations .
I flounced away in a rage , and didn't go back for a great while .
I hoped something would happen to the coral builders and their island ; but I was so curious that I couldn't keep away , and , on going back there , I found a settlement of fishermen , and the beginning of a thriving town .
Now I should have been in a towering passion at this , if in my travels I hadn't discovered a race of little creatures as much smaller than polypes as a mouse is smaller than an elephant .
I heard two learned men talking about diatoms , as they sailed to Labrador ; and I listened .
They said these people lived in both salt and fresh water , and were found in all parts of the world .
They were a glassy shell , holding a soft , golden-yellow substance , and that they were so countless that banks were made of them , and that a town here in these United States was founded on them .
They were the food of many little sea-animals , who , in turn , fed us big creatures , and were very interesting and wonderful .
I saved up this story ; and , when the polypes asked if they hadn't done what they intended , I told them I didn't think it so very remarkable , for the tiny diatoms made cities , and were far more astonishing animals than they .
I thought that would silence them ; but they just turned round , and informed me that my diatoms were plants , not animals , -- so my story was all humbug .
Then I was mad ; and couldn't get over the fact that these little rascals had done what we , the kings of the sea , couldn't do .
I wasn't content with being the biggest creature there : I wanted to be the most skilful also .
I didn't remember that every thing has its own place and use , and should be happy in doing the work for which it was made .
I fretted over the matter a long while , and at last decided to make an island myself . ''
`` How could you ? ''
asked Freddy .
`` I had my plans ; and thought them very wise ones .
I was so bent on outdoing the polypes that I didn't much care what happened ; and so I went to work in my clumsy way .
I couldn't pile up stones , or build millions of cells ; so I just made an island of myself .
I swam up into the harbor yonder one night ; covered my back with sea-weed ; and lay still on the top of the water .
In the morning the gulls came to see what it was , and pecked away at the weeds , telling me very soon that they knew what I was after , and that I couldn't gull them .
All the people on shore turned out to see the wonder also ; for a fisherman had carried the tidings , and every one was wild to behold the new island .
After staring and chattering a long while , boats came off to examine the mystery .
Loads of scientific gentlemen worked away at me with microscopes , hammers , acids , and all sorts of tests , to decide what I was ; and kept up such a fire of long words that I was ` most dead .
They couldn't make up their minds ; and meanwhile news of the strange thing spread , and every sort of person came to see me .
The gulls kept telling them the joke ; but they didn't understand , and I got on capitally .
Every night I dined and fed and frolicked till dawn ; then put on my sea-weeds , and lay still to be stared at .
I wanted some one to come and live on me ; then I should be equal to the island of the polypes .
But no one came , and I was beginning to be tired of fooling people , when I was fooled myself .
An old sailor came to visit me : he had been a whaler , and he soon guessed the secret .
But he said nothing till he was safely out of danger ; then he got all ready , and one day , as I lay placidly in the sun , a horrible harpoon came flying through the air , and sunk deep into my back .
I forgot every thing but the pain , and dived for my life .
Alas !
the tide was low ; the harbor-bar couldn't be passed ; and I found hundreds of boats chasing me , till I was driven ashore down there on the flats .
Big and strong as we are , once out of water , and we are perfectly helpless .
I was soon despatched ; and my bones left to whiten on the sand .
This was long ago ; and , one by one , all my relics have been carried off or washed away .
My jaw-bone has been used as a seat here , till it's worn out ; but I couldn't crumble away till I 'd told some one my story .
Remember , child , pride goeth before a fall . ''
Then , with a great creak , the bone tumbled to pieces ; and found a peaceful grave in the long green grass .
X .
A STRANGE ISLAND .
One day I lay rocking in my boat , reading a very famous book , which all children know and love ; and the name of which I'll tell you by and by .
So busily was I reading , that I never minded the tide ; and presently discovered that I was floating out to sea , with neither sail nor oar .
At first I was very much frightened ; for there was no one in sight on land or sea , and I didn't know where I might drift to .
But the water was calm , the sky clear , and the wind blew balmily ; so I waited for what should happen .
Presently I saw a speck on the sea , and eagerly watched it ; for it drew rapidly near , and seemed to be going my way .
When it came closer , I was much amazed ; for , of all the queer boats I ever saw , this was the queerest .
It was a great wooden bowl , very cracked and old ; and in it sat three gray-headed little gentlemen with spectacles , all reading busily , and letting the boat go where it pleased .
Now , right in their way was a rock ; and I called out , `` Sir , sir , take care . ''
But my call came too late : crash went the bowl , out came the bottom , and down plumped all the little gentlemen into the sea .
I tried not to laugh , as the books , wigs , and spectacles flew about ; and , urging my boat nearer , I managed to fish them up , dripping and sneezing , and looking like drowned kittens .
When the flurry was over , and they had got their breath , I asked who they were , and where they were going .
`` We are from Gotham , ma'am , '' said the fattest one , wiping a very wet face on a very wet handkerchief .
`` We were going to that island yonder .
We have often tried , but never got there : it's always so , and I begin to think the thing can't be done . ''
I looked where he pointed ; and , sure enough , there was an island where I had never seen one before .
I rubbed my eyes , and looked again .
Yes : there it was , -- a little island , with trees and people on it ; for I saw smoke coming out of the chimney of a queerly-shaped house on the shore .
`` What is the name of it ? ''
I asked .
The little old gentleman put his finger on his lips , and said , with a mysterious nod : `` I couldn't tell you , ma'am .
It's a secret ; but , if you manage to land there , you will soon know . ''
The other old men nodded at the same time ; and then all went to reading again , with the water still dropping off the ends of their noses .
This made me very curious ; and , as the tide drifted us nearer and nearer , I looked well about me , and saw several things that filled me with a strong desire to land on the island .
The odd house , I found , was built like a high-heeled shoe ; and at every window I saw children's heads .
Some were eating broth ; some were crying ; and some had nightcaps on .
I caught sight of a distracted old lady flying about , with a ladle in one hand , and a rod in the other ; but the house was so full of children , even up to the skylight , -- out of which they popped their heads , and nodded at me , that I couldn't see much of the mamma of this large family : one seldom can , you know .
I had hardly got over my surprise at this queer sight , when I saw a cow fly up through the air , over the new moon that hung there , and come down and disappear in the woods .
I really didn't know what to make of this , but had no time to ask the old men what it meant ; for a cat , playing a fiddle , was seen on the shore .
A little dog stood by , listening and laughing ; while a dish and a spoon ran away over the beach with all their might .
If the boat had not floated up to the land , I think I should have swam there , -- I was so anxious to see what was going on ; for there was a great racket on the island , and such a remarkable collection of creatures , it was impossible to help staring .
As soon as we landed , three other gentlemen came to welcome the ones I had saved , and seemed very glad to see them .
They appeared to have just landed from a tub in which was a drum , rub-a-dub-dubbing all by itself .
One of the new men had a white frock on , and carried a large knife ; the second had dough on his hands , flour on his coat , and a hot-looking face ; the third was very greasy , had a bundle of candles under his arm , and a ball of wicking half out of his pocket .
The six shook hands , and walked away together , talking about a fair ; and left me to take care of myself .
I walked on through a pleasant meadow , where a pretty little girl was looking sadly up at a row of sheep's tails hung on a tree .
I also saw a little boy in blue , asleep by a haycock ; and another boy taking aim at a cock-sparrow , who clapped his wings and flew away .
Presently I saw two more little girls : one sat by a fire warming her toes ; and , when I asked what her name was , she said pleasantly : `` Polly Flinders , ma'am . ''
The other one sat on a tuft of grass , eating something that looked very nice ; but , all of a sudden , she dropped her bowl , and ran away , looking very much frightened .
`` What's the matter with her ? ''
I asked of a gay young frog who came tripping along with his hat under his arm .
`` Miss Muffit is a fashionable lady , and afraid of spiders , madam ; also of frogs . ''
And he puffed himself angrily up , till his eyes quite goggled in his head .
`` And , pray , who are you , sir ? ''
I asked , staring at his white vest , green coat , and fine cravat .
`` Excuse me , if I don't give my name , ma'am .
My false friend , the rat , got me into a sad scrape once ; and Rowley insists upon it that a duck destroyed me , which is all gammon , ma'am , -- all gammon . ''
With that , the frog skipped away ; and I turned into a narrow lane , which seemed to lead toward some music .
I had not gone far , when I heard the rumbling of a wheelbarrow , and saw a little man wheeling a little woman along .
The little man looked very hot and tired ; but the little woman looked very nice , in a smart bonnet and shawl , and kept looking at a new gold ring on her finger , as she rode along under her little umbrella .
I was wondering who they were , when down went the wheelbarrow ; and the little lady screamed so dismally that I ran away , lest I should get into trouble , -- being a stranger .
Turning a corner , I came upon a very charming scene , and slipped into a quiet nook to see what was going on .
It was evidently a wedding ; and I was just in time to see it , for the procession was passing at that moment .
First came a splendid cock-a-doodle , all in black and gold , like a herald , blowing his trumpet , and marching with a very dignified step .
Then came a rook , in black , like a minister , with spectacles and white cravat .
A lark and bullfinch followed , -- friends , I suppose ; and then the bride and bridegroom .
Miss Wren was evidently a Quakeress ; for she wore a sober dress , and a little white veil , through which her bright eyes shone .
The bridegroom was a military man , in his scarlet uniform , -- a plump , bold-looking bird , very happy and proud just then .
A goldfinch gave away the bride , and a linnet was bridesmaid .
The ceremony was very fine ; and , as soon as it was over , the blackbird , thrush and nightingale burst out in a lovely song .
A splendid dinner followed , at which was nearly every bird that flies ; so you may imagine the music there was .
They had currant-pie in abundance ; and cherry-wine , which excited a cuckoo so much , that he became quite rude , and so far forgot himself as to pull the bride about .
This made the groom so angry that he begged his friend , the sparrow , to bring his bow and arrow , and punish the ruffian .
But , alas !
Sparrow had also taken a drop too much : he aimed wrong , and , with a dreadful cry , Mr. Robin sank dying into the arms of his wife , little Jane .
It was too much for me ; and , taking advantage of the confusion that followed , I left the tragical scene as fast as possible .
A little farther on , I was shocked to see a goose dragging an old man down some steps that led to a little house .
`` Dear me !
what's the matter here ? ''
I cried .
`` He won't say his prayers , '' screamed the goose .
`` But perhaps he was never taught , '' said I. `` It's never too late to learn : he's had his chance ; he won't be pious and good , so away with him .
Don't interfere , whatever you do : hold your tongue , and go about your business , '' scolded the goose , who certainly had a dreadful temper .
I dared say no more ; and , when the poor old man had been driven away by this foul proceeding , I went up the steps and peeped in ; for I heard some one crying , and thought the cross bird , perhaps , had hurt some one else .
A little old woman stood there , wringing her hands in great distress ; while a small dog was barking at her with all his might .
`` Bless me !
the fashions have got even here , '' thought I ; for the old woman was dressed in the latest style , -- or , rather , she had overdone it sadly ; for her gown was nearly up to her knees , and she was nearly as ridiculous an object as some of the young ladies I had seen at home .
She had a respectable bonnet on , however , instead of a straw saucer ; and her hair was neatly put under a cap , -- not made into a knob on the top of her head .
`` My dear soul , what's the trouble ? ''
said I , quite touched by her tears .
`` Lud a mercy , ma'am !
I've been to market with my butter and eggs , -- for the price of both is so high , one can soon get rich nowadays , -- and , being tired , I stopped to rest a bit , but fell asleep by the road .
Somebody -- I think it's a rogue of a peddler who sold me wooden nutmegs , and a clock that wouldn't go , and some pans that came to bits the first time I used them -- somebody cut my new gown and petticoat off all round , in the shameful way you see .
I thought I never should get home ; for I was such a fright , I actually didn't know myself .
But , thinks I , my doggy will know me ; and then I shall be sure I 'm I , and not some boldfaced creature in short skirts .
But , oh , ma'am !
doggy don't know me ; and I ain't myself , and I don't know what to do . ''
`` He's a foolish little beast ; so don't mind him , but have a cup of tea , and go to bed .
You can make your gown decent to-morrow ; and , if I see the tricksy peddler , I'll give him a scolding . ''
This seemed to comfort the old woman ; though doggy still barked .
`` My next neighbor has a dog who never behaves in this way , '' she said , as she put her teapot on the coals .
`` He's a remarkable beast ; and you 'd better stop to see him as you pass , ma'am .
He's always up to some funny prank or other . ''
I said I would ; and , as I went by the next house , I took a look in at the window .
The closet was empty , I observed ; but the dog sat smoking a pipe , looking as grave as a judge .
`` Where is your mistress ? ''
asked I. `` Gone for some tripe , '' answered the dog , politely taking the pipe out of his mouth , and adding , `` I hope the smoke doesn't annoy you . ''
`` I don't approve of smoking , '' said I. `` Sorry to hear it , '' said the dog , coolly .
I was going to lecture him on this bad habit ; but I saw his mistress coming with a dish in her hand , and , fearing she might think me rude to peep in at her windows , I walked on , wondering what we were coming to when even four-legged puppies smoked .
At the door of the next little house , I saw a market-wagon loaded with vegetables , and a smart young pig just driving it away .
I had heard of this interesting family , and took a look as I passed by .
A second tidy pig sat blowing the fire ; and a third was eating roast-beef , as if he had just come in from his work .
The fourth , I was grieved to see , looked very sulky ; for it was evident he had been naughty , and so lost his dinner .
The little pig was at the door , crying to get in ; and it was sweet to see how kindly the others let him in , wiped his tears , tied on his bib , and brought him his bread and milk .
I was very glad to see these young orphans doing so well , and I knew my friends at home would enjoy hearing from them .
A loud scream made me jump ; and the sudden splash of water made me run along , without stopping to pick up a boy and girl who came tumbling down the hill , with an empty pail , bumping their heads as they rolled .
Smelling something nice , and feeling hungry , I stepped into a large room near by , -- a sort of eating-house , I fancy ; for various parties seemed to be enjoying themselves in their different ways .
A small boy sat near the door , eating a large pie ; and he gave me a fine plum which he had just pulled out .
At one table was a fat gentleman cutting another pie , which had a dark crust , through which appeared the heads of a flock of birds , all singing gayly .
`` There's no end to the improvements in cooking , and no accounting for tastes , '' I added , looking at a handsomely-dressed lady , who sat near , eating bread and honey .
As I passed this party , I saw behind the lady's chair a maid , with a clothes-pin in her hand , and no nose .
She sobbingly told me a bird had nipped it off ; and I gave her a bit of court-plaster , which I fortunately had in my pocket .
Another couple were dividing their meat in a queer way ; for one took all the fat , and the other all the lean .
The next people were odder still ; for the man looked rather guilty , and seemed to be hiding a three-peck measure under his chair , while he waited for his wife to bring on some cold barley-pudding , which , to my surprise , she was frying herself .
I also saw a queer moonstruck-looking man inquiring the way to Norridge ; and another man making wry faces over some plum-pudding , with which he had burnt his mouth , because his friend came down too soon .
I ordered pease-porridge hot , and they brought it cold ; but I didn't wait for any thing else , being in a hurry to see all there was to be seen on this strange island .
Feeling refreshed , I strolled on , passing a jolly old gentleman smoking and drinking , while three fiddlers played before him .
As I turned into a road that led toward a hill , a little boy , riding a dapple-gray pony , and an old lady on a white horse , with bells ringing somewhere , trotted by me , followed by a little girl , who wished to know where she could buy a penny bun .
I told her the best were at Newmarch's , in Bedford Street , and she ran on , much pleased ; but I 'm afraid she never found that best of bake-shops .
I was going quietly along , when the sound of another horse coming made me look round ; and there I saw a dreadful sight , -- a wild horse , tearing over the ground , with fiery eyes and streaming tail .
On his back sat a crazy man , beating him with a broom ; a crazy woman was behind him , with her bonnet on wrong side before , holding one crazy child in her lap , while another stood on the horse ; a third was hanging on by one foot , and all were howling at the top of their voices as they rushed by .
I scrambled over the wall to get out of the way , and there I saw more curious sights .
Two blind men were sitting on the grass , trying to see two lame men who were hobbling along as hard as they could ; and , near by , a bull was fighting a bee in the most violent manner .
This rather alarmed me ; and I scrambled back into the road again , just as a very fine lady jumped over a barberry-bush near by , and a gentleman went flying after , with a ring in one hand and a stick in the other .
`` What very odd people they have here ! ''
I thought .
Close by was a tidy little house under the hill , and in it a tidy little woman who sold things to eat .
Being rather hungry , in spite of my porridge , I bought a baked apple and a cranberry-pie ; for she said they were good , and I found she told the truth .
As I sat eating my pie , some dogs began to bark ; and by came a troop of beggars , some in rags , and some in old velvet gowns .
A drunken grenadier was with them , who wanted a pot of beer ; but as he had no money , the old woman sent him about his business .
On my way up the hill , I saw a little boy crying over a dead pig , and his sister , who seemed to be dead also .
I asked his name , and he sobbed out , `` Johnny Pringle , ma'am ; '' and went on crying so hard I could do nothing to comfort him .
While I stood talking to him , a sudden gust of wind blew up the road , and down came the bough of a tree ; and , to my surprise , a cradle with a baby in it also .
The baby screamed dreadfully , and I didn't know how to quiet it ; so I ran back to the old woman , and left it with her , asking if that was the way babies were taken care of there .
`` Bless you , my dear !
its ma is making patty-cakes ; and put it up there to be out of the way of Tom Tinker's dog .
I'll soon hush it up , '' said the old woman ; and , trotting it on her knee , she began to sing : `` Hey !
my kitten , my kitten , Hey !
my kitten , my deary . ''
Feeling that the child was in good hands , I hurried away , for I saw something was going on upon the hill-top .
When I got to the hill-top , I was shocked to find some people tossing an old woman in a blanket .
I begged them to stop ; but one of the men , who , I found , was a Welchman , by the name of Taffy , told me the old lady liked it .
`` But why does she like it ? ''
I asked in great surprise .
`` Tom , the piper's son , will tell you : it's my turn to toss now , '' said the man .
`` Why , you see , ma'am , '' said Tom , `` she is one of those dreadfully nice old women , who are always fussing and scrubbing , and worrying people to death , with everlastingly cleaning house .
Now and then we get so tired out with her that we propose to her to clean the sky itself .
She likes that ; and , as this is the only way we can get her up , we toss till she sticks somewhere , and then leave her to sweep cobwebs till she is ready to come back and behave herself . ''
`` Well , that is the oddest thing I ever heard .
I know just such an old lady , and when I go home I'll try your plan .
It seems to me that you have a great many queer old ladies on this island , '' I said to another man , whom they called Peter , and who stood eating pumpkin all the time .
`` Well , we do have rather a nice collection ; but you haven't seen the best of all .
We expect her every minute ; and Margery Daw is to let us know the minute she lights on the island , '' replied Peter , with his mouth full .
`` Lights ? ''
said I , `` you speak as if she flew . ''
`` She rides on a bird .
Hurrah !
the old sweeper has lit .
Now the cobwebs will fly .
Don't hurry back , '' shouted the man ; and a faint , far-off voice answered , `` I shall be back again by and by . ''
The people folded up the blanket , looking much relieved ; and I was examining a very odd house which was built by an ancient king called Boggen , when Margery Daw , a dirty little girl , came up the hill , screaming , at the top of her voice : `` She's come !
she's come ! ''
Every one looked up ; and I saw a large white bird slowly flying over the island .
On its back sat the nicest old woman that ever was seen : all the others were nothing compared to her .
She had a pointed hat on over her cap , a red cloak , high-heeled shoes , and a crutch in her hand .
She smiled and nodded as the bird approached ; and every one ran and nodded , and screamed , `` Welcome !
welcome , mother ! ''
As soon as she touched the ground , she was so surrounded that I could only see the top of her hat ; for hundreds and hundreds of little children suddenly appeared , like a great flock of birds , -- rosy , happy , pretty children ; but all looked unreal , and among them I saw some who looked like little people I had known long ago .
`` Who are they ? ''
I asked of a bonny lass , who was sitting on a cushion , eating strawberries and cream .
`` They are the phantoms of all the little people who ever read and loved our mother's songs , '' said the maid .
`` What did she write ? ''
I asked , feeling very queer , and as if I was going to remember something .
`` Songs that are immortal ; and you have them in your hand , '' replied the bonny maid , smiling at my stupidity .
I looked ; and there , on the cover of the book I had been reading so busily when the tide carried me away , I saw the words `` Mother Goose's Melodies . ''
I was so delighted that I had seen her I gave a shout , and tried to get near enough to hug and kiss the dear old soul , as the swarm of children were doing ; but my cry woke me , and I was so sorry to find it all a dream !
XI .
FANCY's FRIEND .
It was a wagon , shaped like a great square basket , on low wheels , and drawn by a stout donkey .
There was one seat , on which Miss Fairbairn the governess sat ; and all round her , leaning over the edge of the basket , were children , with little wooden shovels and baskets in their hands , going down to play on the beach .
Away they went , over the common , through the stony lane , out upon the wide , smooth sands .
All the children but one immediately fell to digging holes , and making ponds , castles , or forts .
They did this every day , and were never tired of it ; but little Fancy made new games for herself , and seldom dug in the sand .
She had a garden of sea-weed , which the waves watered every day : she had a palace of pretty shells , where she kept all sorts of little water-creatures as fairy tenants ; she had friends and playmates among the gulls and peeps , and learned curious things by watching crabs , horse-shoes , and jelly-fishes ; and every day she looked for a mermaid .
It was of no use to tell her that there were no mermaids : Fancy firmly believed in them , and was sure she would see one some day .
The other children called the seals mermaids ; and were contented with the queer , shiny creatures who played in the water , lay on the rocks , and peeped at them with soft , bright eyes as they sailed by .
Fancy was not satisfied with seals , -- they were not pretty and graceful enough for her , -- and she waited and watched for a real mermaid .
On this day she took a breezy run with the beach-birds along the shore ; she planted a pretty red weed in her garden ; and let out the water-beetles and snails who had passed the night in her palace .
Then she went to a rock that stood near the quiet nook where she played alone , and sat there looking for a mermaid as the tide came in ; for it brought her many curious things , and it might perhaps bring a mermaid .
As she looked across the waves that came tumbling one over the other , she saw something that was neither boat nor buoy nor seal .
It was a queer-looking thing , with a wild head , a long waving tail , and something like arms that seemed to paddle it along .
The waves tumbled it about , so Fancy could not see very well : but , the longer she looked , the surer she was that this curious thing was a mermaid ; and she waited eagerly for it to reach the shore .
Nearer and nearer it came , till a great wave threw it upon the sand ; and Fancy saw that it was only a long piece of kelp , torn up by the roots .
She was very much disappointed ; but , all of a sudden , her face cleared up , she clapped her hands , and began to dance round the kelp , saying : `` I'll make a mermaid myself , since none will come to me . ''
Away she ran , higher up the beach , and , after thinking a minute , began her work .
Choosing a smooth , hard place , she drew with a stick the outline of her mermaid ; then she made the hair of the brown marsh-grass growing near by , arranging it in long locks on either side the face , which was made of her prettiest pink and white shells , -- for she pulled down her palace to get them .
The eyes were two gray pebbles ; the neck and arms of larger , white shells ; and the dress of sea-weed , -- red , green , purple , and yellow ; very splendid , for Fancy emptied her garden to dress her mermaid .
`` People say that mermaids always have tails ; and I might make one out of this great leaf of kelp .
But it isn't pretty , and I don't like it ; for I want mine to be beautiful : so I won't have any tail , '' said Fancy , and put two slender white shells for feet , at the lower edge of the fringed skirt .
She laid a wreath of little star-fish across the brown hair , a belt of small orange-crabs round the waist , buttoned the dress with violet snail-shells , and hung a tiny white pebble , like a pearl , in either ear .
`` Now she must have a glass and a comb in her hand , as the song says , and then she will be done , '' said Fancy , looking about her , well pleased .
Presently she found the skeleton of a little fish , and his backbone made an excellent comb ; while a transparent jelly-fish served for a glass , with a frame of cockle-shells round it .
Placing these in the hands of her mermaid , and some red coral bracelets on her wrists , Fancy pronounced her done ; and danced about her , singing : `` My pretty little mermaid , Oh !
come , and play with me : I'll love you , I'll welcome you ; And happy we shall be . ''
Now , while she had been working , the tide had crept higher and higher ; and , as she sung , one wave ran up and wet her feet .
`` Oh , what a pity I didn't put her farther up ! ''
cried Fancy ; `` the tide will wash her all away ; and I meant to keep her fresh , and show her to Aunt Fiction .
My poor mermaid !
-- I shall lose her ; but perhaps she will be happier in the sea : so I will let her go . ''
Mounting her rock , Fancy waited to see her work destroyed .
But the sea seemed to pity her ; and wave after wave came up , without doing any harm .
At last one broke quite over the mermaid , and Fancy thought that would be the end of her .
But , no : instead of scattering shells , stones , and weeds , the waves lifted the whole figure , without displacing any thing , and gently bore it back into the sea .
`` Good by !
good by ! ''
cried Fancy , as the little figure floated away ; then , as it disappeared , she put her hands before her face , -- for she loved her mermaid , and had given all her treasures to adorn her ; and now to lose her so soon seemed hard , -- and Fancy's eyes were full of tears .
Another great wave came rolling in ; but she did not look up to see it break , and , a minute after , she heard steps tripping toward her over the sand .
Still she did not stir ; for , just then , none of her playmates could take the place of her new friend , and she didn't want to see them .
`` Fancy !
Fancy ! ''
called a breezy voice , sweeter than any she had ever heard .
But she did not raise her head , nor care to know who called .
The steps came quite close ; and the touch of a cold , wet hand fell on her own .
Then she looked up , and saw a strange little girl standing by her , who smiled , showing teeth like little pearls , and said , in the breezy voice : `` You wanted me to play with you , so I came . ''
`` Who are you ? ''
asked Fancy , wondering where she had seen the child before .
`` I 'm your mermaid , '' said the child .
`` But the water carried her away , '' cried Fancy .
`` The waves only carried me out for the sea to give me life , and then brought me back to you , '' answered the new comer .
`` But are you really a mermaid ? ''
asked Fancy , beginning to smile and believe .
`` I am really the one you made : look , and see if I 'm not ; '' and the little creature turned slowly round , that Fancy might be sure it was her own work .
She certainly was very like the figure that once lay on the sand , -- only she was not now made of stones and shells .
There was the long brown hair blowing about her face , with a wreath of starry shells in it .
Her eyes were gray , her cheeks and lips rosy , her neck and arms white ; and from under her striped dress peeped little bare feet .
She had pearls in her ears , coral bracelets , a golden belt , and a glass and comb in her hands .
`` Yes , '' said Fancy , drawing near , `` you are my little mermaid ; but how does it happen that you come to me at last ? ''
`` Dear friend , '' answered the water-child , `` you believed in me , watched and waited long for me , shaped the image of the thing you wanted out of your dearest treasures , and promised to love and welcome me .
I could not help coming ; and the sea , that is as fond of you as you are of it , helped me to grant your wish . ''
`` Oh , I 'm glad , I 'm glad !
Dear little mermaid , what is your name ? ''
cried Fancy , kissing the cool cheek of her new friend , and putting her arms about her neck .
`` Call me by my German cousin's pretty name , -- Lorelei , '' answered the mermaid , kissing back as warmly as she could .
`` Will you come home and live with me , dear Lorelei ? ''
asked Fancy , still holding her fast .
`` If you will promise to tell no one who and what I am , I will stay with you as long as you love and believe in me .
As soon as you betray me , or lose your faith and fondness , I shall vanish , never to come back again , '' answered Lorelei .
`` I promise : but won't people wonder who you are ?
and , if they ask me , what shall I say ? ''
said Fancy .
`` Tell them you found me on the shore ; and leave the rest to me .
But you must not expect other people to like and believe in me as you do .
They will say hard things of me ; will blame you for loving me ; and try to part us .
Can you bear this , and keep your promise faithfully ? ''
`` I think I can .
But why won't they like you ? ''
said Fancy , looking troubled .
`` Because they are not like you , dear , '' answered the mermaid , with salt tears in her soft eyes .
`` They have not your power of seeing beauty in all things , of enjoying invisible delights , and living in a world of your own .
Your Aunt Fiction will like me ; but your Uncle Fact won't .
He will want to know all about me ; will think I 'm a little vagabond ; and want me to be sent away somewhere , to be made like other children .
I shall keep out of his way as much as I can ; for I 'm afraid of him . ''
`` I'll take care of you , Lorelei dear ; and no one shall trouble you .
I hear Miss Fairbairn calling ; so I must go .
Give me your hand , and don't be afraid . ''
Hand in hand the two went toward the other children , who stopped digging , and stared at the new child .
Miss Fairbairn , who was very wise and good , but rather prim , stared too , and said , with surprise : `` Why , my dear , where did you find that queer child ? ''
`` Down on the beach .
Isn't she pretty ? ''
answered Fancy , feeling very proud of her new friend .
`` She hasn't got any shoes on ; so she's a beggar , and we mustn't play with her , '' said one boy , who had been taught that to be poor was a very dreadful thing .
`` What pretty earrings and bracelets she's got ! ''
said a little girl , who thought a great deal of her dress .
`` She doesn't look as if she knew much , '' said another child , who was kept studying so hard that she never had time to dig and run , and make dirt-pies , till she fell ill , and had to be sent to the sea-side .
`` What's your name ?
and who are your parents ? ''
asked Miss Fairbairn .
`` I've got no parents ; and my name is Lorelei , '' answered the mermaiden .
`` You mean Luly ; mind your pronunciation , child , '' said Miss Fairbairn , who corrected every one she met in something or other .
`` Where do you live ? ''
`` I haven't got any home now , '' said Lorelei , smiling at the lady's tone .
`` Yes , you have : my home is yours ; and you are going to stay with me always , '' cried Fancy , heartily .
`` She is my little sister , Miss Fairbairn : I found her ; and I 'm going to keep her , and make her happy . ''
`` Your uncle won't like it , my dear . ''
And Miss Fairbairn shook her head gravely .
`` Aunt will ; and Uncle won't mind , if I learn my lessons well , and remember the multiplication table all right .
He was going to give me some money , so I might learn to keep accounts ; but I'll tell him to keep the money , and let me have Lorelei instead . ''
`` Oh , how silly ! ''
cried the boy who didn't like bare feet .
`` No , she isn't ; for , if she's kind to the girl , maybe she'll get some of her pretty things , '' said the vain little girl .
`` Keeping accounts is a very useful and important thing .
I keep mine ; and mamma says I have great arth-met-i-cal talent , '' added the pale child , who studied too much .
`` Come , children ; it's time for dinner .
Fancy , you can take the girl to the house ; and your uncle will do what he thinks best about letting you keep her , '' said Miss Fairbairn , piling them into the basket-wagon .
Fancy kept Lorelei close beside her ; and as soon as they reached the great hotel , where they all were staying with mothers and fathers , uncles or aunts , she took her to kind Aunt Fiction , who was interested at once in the friendless child so mysteriously found .
She was satisfied with the little she could discover , and promised to keep her , -- for a time , at least .
`` We can imagine all kinds of romantic things about her ; and , by and by , some interesting story may be found out concerning her .
I can make her useful in many ways ; and she shall stay . ''
As Aunt Fiction laid her hand on the mermaid's head , as if claiming her for her own , Uncle Fact came stalking in , with his note-book in his hand , and his spectacles on his nose .
Now , though they were married , these two persons were very unlike .
Aunt Fiction was a graceful , picturesque woman ; who told stories charmingly , wrote poetry and novels , was very much beloved by young folks , and was the friend of some of the most famous people in the world .
Uncle Fact was a grim , grave , decided man ; whom it was impossible to bend or change .
He was very useful to every one ; knew an immense deal ; and was always taking notes of things he saw and heard , to be put in a great encyclopdia he was making .
He didn't like romance , loved the truth , and wanted to get to the bottom of every thing .
He was always trying to make little Fancy more sober , well-behaved , and learned ; for she was a freakish , dreamy , yet very lovable and charming child .
Aunt Fiction petted her to her heart's content , and might have done her harm , if Uncle Fact had not had a hand in her education ; for the lessons of both were necessary to her , as to all of us .
`` Well , well , well !
who is this ? ''
he said briskly , as he turned his keen eyes and powerful glasses on the new comer .
Aunt Fiction told him all the children had said ; but he answered impatiently : `` Tut , tut !
my dear : I want the facts of the case .
You are apt to exaggerate ; and Fancy is not to be relied on .
If the child isn't a fool , she must know more about herself than she pretends .
Now , answer truly , Luly , where did you come from ? ''
But the little mermaid only shook her head , and answered as before , `` Fancy found me on the beach , and wants me to stay with her .
I'll do her no harm : please , let me stay . ''
`` She has evidently been washed ashore from some wreck , and has forgotten all about herself .
Her wonderful beauty , her accent , and these ornaments show that she is some foreign child , '' said Aunt Fiction , pointing to the earrings .
`` Nonsense !
my dear : those are white pebbles , not pearls ; and , if you examine them , you will find that those bracelets are the ones you gave Fancy as a reward for so well remembering the facts I told her about coral , '' said the uncle , who had turned Lorelei round and round , pinched her cheek , felt her hair , and examined her frock through the glasses which nothing escaped .
`` She may stay , and be my little playmate , mayn't she ?
I'll take care of her ; and we shall be very happy together , '' cried Fancy eagerly .
`` One can't be sure of that till one has tried .
You say you will take care of her : have you got any money to pay her board , and buy her clothes ? ''
asked her uncle .
`` No ; but I thought you 'd help me , '' answered Fancy wistfully .
`` Never say you'll do a thing till you are sure you can , '' said Uncle Fact , as he took notes of the affair , thinking they might be useful by and by .
`` I've no objection to your keeping the girl , if , after making inquiries about her , she proves to be a clever child .
She can stay awhile ; and , when we go back to town , I'll put her in one of our charity schools , where she can be taught to earn her living .
Can you read , Luly ? ''
`` No , '' said the mermaid , opening her eyes .
`` Can you write and cipher ? ''
`` What is that ? ''
asked Lorelei innocently .
`` Dear me !
what ignorance ! ''
cried Uncle Fact .
`` Can you sew , or tend babies ? ''
asked Aunt Fiction gently .
`` I can do nothing but play and sing , and comb my hair . ''
`` I see !
I see !
-- some hand-organ man's girl .
Well , I 'm glad you keep your hair smooth , -- that's more than Fancy does , '' said Uncle Fact .
`` Let us hear you sing , '' whispered his little niece ; and , in a voice as musical as the sound of ripples breaking on the shore , Lorelei sung a little song that made Fancy dance with delight , charmed Aunt Fiction , and softened Uncle Fact's hard face in spite of himself .
`` Very well , very well , indeed : you have a good voice .
I'll see that you have proper teaching ; and , by and by , you can get your living by giving singing-lessons , '' he said , turning over the leaves of his book , to look for the name of a skilful teacher ; for he had lists of every useful person , place , and thing under the sun .
Lorelei laughed at the idea ; and Fancy thought singing for gold , not love , a hard way to get one's living .
Inquiries were made ; but nothing more was discovered , and neither of the children would speak : so the strange child lived with Fancy , and made her very happy .
The other children didn't care much about her ; for with them she was shy and cold , because she knew , if the truth was told , they would not believe in her .
Fancy had always played a good deal by herself , because she never found a mate to suit her ; now she had one , and they enjoyed each other very much .
Lorelei taught her many things besides new games ; and Aunt Fiction was charmed with the pretty stories Fancy repeated to her , while Uncle Fact was astonished at the knowledge of marine plants and animals which she gained without any books .
Lorelei taught her to swim , like a fish ; and the two played such wonderful pranks in the water that people used to come down to the beach when they bathed .
In return , Fancy tried to teach her friend to read and write and sew ; but Lorelei couldn't learn much , though she loved her little teacher dearly , and every evening sung her to sleep with beautiful lullabies .
There was a great deal of talk about the curious stranger ; for her ways were odd , and no one knew what to make of her .
She would eat nothing but fruit and shell-fish , and drink nothing but salt water .
She didn't like tight clothes ; but would have run about in a loose , green robe , with bare feet and flying hair , if Uncle Fact would have allowed it .
Morning , noon , and night , she plunged into the sea , -- no matter what the weather might be ; and she would sleep on no bed but one stuffed with dried sea-weed .
She made lovely chains of shells ; found splendid bits of coral ; and dived where no one else dared , to bring up wonderful plants and mosses .
People offered money for these things ; but she gave them all to Fancy and Aunt Fiction , of whom she was very fond .
It was curious to see the sort of people who liked both Fancy and her friend , -- poets , artists ; delicate , thoughtful children ; and a few old people , who had kept their hearts young in spite of care and time and trouble .
Dashing young gentlemen , fine young ladies , worldly-minded and money-loving men and women , and artificial , unchildlike children , the two friends avoided carefully ; and these persons either made fun of them , neglected them entirely , or seemed to be unconscious that they were alive .
The others they knew at a glance ; for their faces warmed and brightened when the children came , they listened to their songs and stories , joined in their plays , and found rest and refreshment in their sweet society .
`` This will do for a time ; as Fancy is getting strong , and not entirely wasting her days , thanks to me !
But our holiday is nearly over ; and , as soon as I get back to town , I'll take that child to the Ragged Refuge , and see what they can make of her , '' said Uncle Fact , who was never quite satisfied about Lorelei ; because he could find out so little concerning her .
He was walking over the beach as he said this , after a hard day's work on his encyclopdia .
He sat down on a rock in a quiet place ; and , instead of enjoying the lovely sunset , he fell to studying the course of the clouds , the state of the tide , and the temperature of the air , till the sound of voices made him peep over the rock .
Fancy and her friend were playing there , and the old gentleman waited to see what they were about .
Both were sitting with their little bare feet in the water ; Lorelei was stringing pearls , and Fancy plaiting a crown of pretty green rushes .
`` I wish I could go home , and get you a string of finer pearls than these , '' said Lorelei ; `` but it is too far away , and I can not swim now as I used to do . ''
`` I must look into this .
The girl evidently knows all about herself , and can tell , if she chooses , '' muttered Uncle Fact , getting rather excited over this discovery .
`` Never mind the pearls : I 'd rather have you , dear , '' said Fancy lovingly .
`` Tell me a story while we work , or sing me a song ; and I'll give you my crown . ''
`` I'll sing you a little song that has got what your uncle calls a moral to it , '' said Lorelei , laughing mischievously .
Then , in her breezy little voice , she sang the story of -- THE ROCK AND THE BUBBLE .
Oh !
a bare , brown rock Stood up in the sea , The waves at its feet Dancing merrily .
A little bubble Came sailing by , And thus to the rock Did it gayly cry , -- `` Ho !
clumsy brown stone , Quick , make way for me : I 'm the fairest thing That floats on the sea .
`` See my rainbow-robe , See my crown of light , My glittering form , So airy and bright .
`` O'er the waters blue , I 'm floating away , To dance by the shore With the foam and spray .
`` Now , make way , make way ; For the waves are strong , And their rippling feet Bear me fast along . ''
But the great rock stood Straight up in the sea : It looked gravely down , And said pleasantly , -- `` Little friend , you must Go some other way ; For I have not stirred This many a long day .
`` Great billows have dashed , And angry winds blown ; But my sturdy form Is not overthrown .
`` Nothing can stir me In the air or sea ; Then , how can I move , Little friend , for thee ? ''
Then the waves all laughed , In their voices sweet ; And the sea-birds looked , From their rocky seat , At the bubble gay , Who angrily cried , While its round cheek glowed With a foolish pride , -- `` You shall move for me ; And you shall not mock At the words I say , You ugly , rough rock !
`` Be silent , wild birds !
Why stare you so ?
Stop laughing , rude waves , And help me to go !
`` For I am the queen Of the ocean here , And this cruel stone Can not make me fear . ''
Dashing fiercely up , With a scornful word , Foolish bubble broke ; But rock never stirred .
Then said the sea-birds , Sitting in their nests , To the little ones Leaning on their breasts , -- `` Be not like Bubble , Headstrong , rude , and vain , Seeking by violence Your object to gain ; `` But be like the rock , Steadfast , true , and strong , Yet cheerful and kind , And firm against wrong .
`` Heed , little birdlings , And wiser you'll be For the lesson learned To-day by the sea . ''
`` Well , to be sure the song has got a moral , if that silly Fancy only sees it , '' said Uncle Fact , popping up his bald head again as the song ended .
`` I thank you : that's a good little song for me .
But , Lorelei , are you sorry you came to be my friend ? ''
cried Fancy ; for , as she bent to lay the crown on the other's head , she saw that she was looking wistfully down into the water that kissed her feet .
`` Not yet : while you love me , I am happy , and never regret that I ceased to be a mermaid for your sake , '' answered Lorelei , laying her soft cheek against her friend's .
`` How happy I was the day my play-mermaid changed to a real one ! ''
said Fancy .
`` I often want to tell people all about that wonderful thing , and let them know who you really are : then they 'd love you as I do , instead of calling you a little vagabond . ''
`` Few would believe our story ; and those that did would wonder at me , -- not love me as you do .
They would put me in a cage , and make a show of me ; and I should be so miserable I should die .
So don't tell who I am , will you ? ''
said Lorelei earnestly .
`` Never , '' cried Fancy , clinging to her .
`` But , my deary , what will you do when uncle sends you away from me , as he means to do as soon as we go home ?
I can see you sometimes ; but we can not be always together , and there is no ocean for you to enjoy in the city . ''
`` I shall bear it , if I can , for your sake ; if I can not , I shall come back here , and wait till you come again next year . ''
`` No , no !
I will not be parted from you ; and , if uncle takes you away , I'll come here , and be a mermaid with you , '' cried Fancy .
The little friends threw their arms about each other , and were so full of their own feelings that they never saw Uncle Fact's tall shadow flit across them , as he stole away over the soft sand .
Poor old gentleman !
he was in a sad state of mind , and didn't know what to do ; for in all his long life he had never been so puzzled before .
`` A mermaid indeed ! ''
he muttered .
`` I always thought that child was a fool , and now I 'm sure of it .
She thinks she is a mermaid , and has made Fancy believe it .
I've told my wife a dozen times that she let Fancy read too many fairy tales and wonder-books .
Her head is full of nonsense , and she is just ready to believe any ridiculous story that is told her .
Now , what on earth shall I do ?
If I put Luly in an asylum , Fancy will break her heart , and very likely they will both run away .
If I leave them together , Luly will soon make Fancy as crazy as she is herself , and I shall be mortified by having a niece who insists that her playmate is a mermaid .
Bless my soul !
how absurd it all is ! ''
Aunt Fiction had gone to town to see her publishers about a novel she had written , and he didn't like to tell the queer story to any one else ; so Uncle Fact thought it over , and decided to settle the matter at once .
When the children came in , he sent Fancy to wait for him in the library , while he talked alone with Lorelei .
He did his best ; but he could do nothing with her , -- she danced and laughed , and told the same tale as before , till the old gentleman confessed that he had heard their talk on the rocks : then she grew very sad , and owned that she was a mermaid .
This made him angry , and he wouldn't believe it for an instant ; but told her it was impossible , and she must say something else .
Lorelei could say nothing else , and wept bitterly when he would not listen ; so he locked her up and went to Fancy , who felt as if something dreadful was going to happen when she saw his face .
He told her all he knew , and insisted that Lorelei was foolish or naughty to persist in such a ridiculous story .
`` But , uncle , I really did make a mermaid ; and she really did come alive , for I saw the figure float away , and then Lorelei appeared , '' said Fancy , very earnestly .
`` It's very likely you made a figure , and called it a mermaid : it would be just the sort of thing you 'd do , '' said her uncle .
`` But it is impossible that any coming alive took place , and I won't hear any such nonsense .
You didn't see this girl come out of the water ; for she says you never looked up , till she touched you .
She was a real child , who came over the beach from somewhere ; and you fancied she looked like your figure , and believed the silly tale she told you .
It is my belief that she is a sly , bad child ; and the sooner she is sent away the better for you . ''
Uncle Fact was so angry and talked so loud , that Fancy felt frightened and bewildered ; and began to think he might be right about the mermaid part , though she hated to give up the little romance .
`` If I agree that she is a real child , won't you let her stay , uncle ? ''
she said , forgetting that , if she lost her faith , her friend was lost also .
`` Ah !
then you have begun to come to your senses , have you ?
and are ready to own that you don't believe in mermaids and such rubbish ? ''
cried Uncle Fact , stopping in his tramp up and down the room .
`` Why , if you say there never were and never can be any , I suppose I must give up my fancy ; but I 'm sorry , '' sighed the child .
`` That's my sensible girl !
Now , think a minute , my dear , and you will also own that it is best to give up the child as well as the mermaid , '' said her uncle briskly .
`` Oh !
no : we love one another ; and she is good , and I can't give her up , '' cried Fancy .
`` Answer me a few questions ; and I'll prove that she isn't good , that you don't love her , and that you can give her up , '' said Uncle Fact , and numbered off the questions on his fingers as he spoke .
`` Didn't Luly want you to deceive us , and every one else , about who she was ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Don't you like to be with her better than with your aunt or myself ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Hadn't you rather hear her songs and stories than learn your lessons ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Isn't it wrong to deceive people , to love strangers more than those who are a father and mother to you , and to like silly tales better than useful lessons ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Very well .
Then , don't you see , that , if Luly makes you do these wrong and ungrateful things , she is not a good child , nor a fit playmate for you ? ''
Fancy didn't answer ; for she couldn't feel that it was so , though he made it seem so .
When Uncle Fact talked in that way , she always got confused and gave up ; for she didn't know how to argue .
He was right in a certain way ; but she felt as if she was right also in another way , though she could not prove it : so she hung her head , and let her tears drop on the carpet one by one .
Uncle Fact didn't mean to be unkind , but he did mean to have his own way ; and , when he saw the little girl's sad face , he took her on his knee , and said , more mildly : `` Do you remember the story about the German Lorelei , who sung so sweetly , and lured people to death in the Rhine ? ''
`` Yes , uncle ; and I like it , '' answered Fancy , looking up .
`` Well , my dear , your Lorelei will lead you into trouble , if you follow her .
Suppose she is what you think her , -- a mermaid : it is her delight to draw people into the water , where , of course , they drown .
If she is what I think her , -- a sly , bad child , who sees that you are very simple , and who means to get taken care of without doing any thing useful , -- she will spoil you in a worse way than if you followed her into the sea .
I've got no little daughter of my own , and I want to keep you as safe and happy as if you were mine .
I don't like this girl , and I want you to give her up for my sake .
Will you , Fancy ? ''
While her uncle said these things , all the beauty seemed to fall away from her friend , all the sweetness from their love , and all her faith in the little dream which had made her so happy .
Mermaids became treacherous , unlovely , unreal creatures ; and Lorelei seemed like a naughty , selfish child , who deceived her , and made her do wrong things .
Her uncle had been very kind to her all her life ; and she loved him , was grateful , and wanted to show that she was , by pleasing him .
But her heart clung to the friend she had made , trusted , and loved ; and it seemed impossible to give up the shadow , even though the substance was gone .
She put her hands before her face for a moment ; then laid her arms about the old man's neck , and whispered , with a little sob : `` I'll give her up ; but you'll be kind to her , because I was fond of her once . ''
As the last word left Fancy's lips , a long , sad cry sounded through the room ; Lorelei sprung in , gave her one kiss , and was seen to run swiftly toward the beach , wringing her hands .
Fancy flew after ; but , when she reached the shore , there was nothing to be seen but the scattered pebbles , shells , and weeds that made the mock mermaid , floating away on a receding wave .
`` Do you believe now ? ''
cried Fancy , weeping bitterly , as she pointed to the wreck of her friend , and turned reproachfully toward Uncle Fact , who had followed in great astonishment .
The old gentleman looked well about him ; then shook his head , and answered decidedly : `` No , my dear , I don't .
It's an odd affair ; but , I've no doubt , it will be cleared up in a natural way sometime or other . ''
But there he was mistaken ; for this mystery never was cleared up .
Other people soon forgot it , and Fancy never spoke of it ; yet she made very few friends , and , though she learned to love and value Uncle Fact as well as Aunt Fiction , she could not forget her dearest playmate .
Year after year she came back to the sea-side ; and the first thing she always did was to visit the place where she used to play , and stretch her arms toward the sea , crying tenderly : `` O my little friend !
come back to me ! ''
But Lorelei never came again .

Two Girls Rose sat all alone in the big best parlor , with her little handkerchief laid ready to catch the first tear , for she was thinking of her troubles , and a shower was expected .
She had retired to this room as a good place in which to be miserable ; for it was dark and still , full of ancient furniture , sombre curtains , and hung all around with portraits of solemn old gentlemen in wigs , severe-nosed ladies in top-heavy caps , and staring children in little bob-tailed coats or short-waisted frocks .
It was an excellent place for woe ; and the fitful spring rain that pattered on the window-pane seemed to sob , `` Cry away : I 'm with you . ''
Rose really did have some cause to be sad ; for she had no mother , and had lately lost her father also , which left her no home but this with her great-aunts .
She had been with them only a week , and , though the dear old ladies had tried their best to make her happy , they had not succeeded very well , for she was unlike any child they had ever seen , and they felt very much as if they had the care of a low-spirited butterfly .
They had given her the freedom of the house , and for a day or two she had amused herself roaming all over it , for it was a capital old mansion , and was full of all manner of odd nooks , charming rooms , and mysterious passages .
Windows broke out in unexpected places , little balconies overhung the garden most romantically , and there was a long upper hall full of curiosities from all parts of the world ; for the Campbells had been sea-captains for generations .
Aunt Plenty had even allowed Rose to rummage in her great china closet a spicy retreat , rich in all the `` goodies '' that children love ; but Rose seemed to care little for these toothsome temptations ; and when that hope failed , Aunt Plenty gave up in despair .
Gentle Aunt Peace had tried all sorts of pretty needle-work , and planned a doll's wardrobe that would have won the heart of even an older child .
But Rose took little interest in pink satin hats and tiny hose , though she sewed dutifully till her aunt caught her wiping tears away with the train of a wedding-dress , and that discovery put an end to the sewing society .
Then both old ladies put their heads together and picked out the model child of the neighbourhood to come and play with their niece .
But Ariadne Blish was the worst failure of all , for Rose could not bear the sight of her , and said she was so like a wax doll she longed to give her a pinch and see if she would squeak .
So prim little Ariadne was sent home , and the exhausted aunties left Rose to her own devices for a day or two .
Bad weather and a cold kept her in-doors , and she spent most of her time in the library where her father's books were stored .
Here she read a great deal , cried a little , and dreamed many of the innocent bright dreams in which imaginative children find such comfort and delight .
This suited her better than anything else , but it was not good for her , and she grew pale , heavy-eyed and listless , though Aunt Plenty gave her iron enough to make a cooking-stove , and Aunt Peace petted her like a poodle .
Seeing this , the poor aunties racked their brains for a new amusement and determined to venture a bold stroke , though not very hopeful of its success .
They said nothing to Rose about their plan for this Saturday afternoon , but let her alone till the time came for the grand surprise , little dreaming that the odd child would find pleasure for herself in a most unexpected quarter .
Before she had time to squeeze out a single tear a sound broke the stillness , making her prick up her ears .
It was only the soft twitter of a bird , but it seemed to be a peculiarly gifted bird , for while she listened the soft twitter changed to a lively whistle , then a trill , a coo , a chirp , and ended in a musical mixture of all the notes , as if the bird burst out laughing .
Rose laughed also , and , forgetting her woes , jumped up , saying eagerly , `` It is a mocking-bird .
Where is it ? ''
Running down the long hall , she peeped out at both doors , but saw nothing feathered except a draggle-tailed chicken under a burdock leaf .
She listened again , and the sound seemed to be in the house .
Away she went , much excited by the chase , and following the changeful song , it led her to the china-closet door .
`` In there ?
How funny ! ''
she said .
But when she entered , not a bird appeared except the everlastingly kissing swallows on the Canton china that lined the shelves .
All of a sudden Rose's face brightened , and , softly opening the slide , she peered into the kitchen .
But the music had stopped , and all she saw was a girl in a blue apron scrubbing the hearth .
Rose stared about her for a minute , and then asked abruptly , `` Did you hear that mocking-bird ? ''
`` I should call it a phebe-bird , '' answered the girl , looking up with a twinkle in her black eyes .
`` Where did it go ? ''
`` It is here still . ''
`` Where ? ''
`` In my throat .
Do you want to hear it ? ''
`` Oh , yes !
I'll come in . ''
And Rose crept through the slide to the wide shelf on the other side , being too hurried and puzzled to go round by the door .
The girl wiped her hands , crossed her feet on the little island of carpet where she was stranded in a sea of soap-suds , and then , sure enough , out of her slender throat came the swallow's twitter , the robin's whistle , the blue-jay's call , the thrush's song , the wood-dove's coo , and many another familiar note , all ending as before with the musical ecstacy of a bobolink singing and swinging among the meadow grass on a bright June day .
Rose was so astonished that she nearly fell off her perch , and when the little concert was over clapped her hands delightedly .
`` Oh , it was lovely !
Who taught you ? ''
`` The birds , '' answered the girl , with a smile , as she fell to work again .
`` It is very wonderful !
I can sing , but nothing half so fine as that .
What is your name , please ? ''
`` Phebe Moore . ''
`` I've heard of phebe-birds ; but I don't believe the real ones could do that , '' laughed Rose , adding , as she watched with interest the scattering of dabs of soft soap over the bricks , `` May I stay and see you work ?
It is very lonely in the parlor . ''
`` Yes , indeed , if you want to , '' answered Phebe , wringing out her cloth in a capable sort of way that impressed Rose very much .
`` It must be fun to swash the water round and dig out the soap .
I 'd love to do it , only aunt wouldn't like it , I suppose , '' said Rose , quite taken with the new employment .
`` You 'd soon get tired , so you 'd better keep tidy and look on . ''
`` I suppose you help your mother a good deal ? ''
`` I haven't got any folks . ''
`` Why , where do you live , then ? ''
`` I 'm going to live here , I hope .
Debby wants some one to help round , and I've come to try for a week . ''
`` I hope you will stay , for it is very dull , '' said Rose , who had taken a sudden fancy to this girl , who sung like a bird and worked like a woman .
`` Hope I shall ; for I 'm fifteen now , and old enough to earn my own living .
You have come to stay a spell , haven't you ? ''
asked Phebe , looking up at her guest and wondering how life could be dull to a girl who wore a silk frock , a daintily frilled apron , a pretty locket , and had her hair tied up with a velvet snood .
`` Yes , I shall stay till my uncle comes .
He is my guardian now , and I don't know what he will do with me .
Have you a guardian ? ''
`` My sakes , no !
I was left on the poor-house steps a little mite of a baby , and Miss Rogers took a liking to me , so I've been there ever since .
But she is dead now , and I take care of myself . ''
`` How interesting !
It is like Arabella Montgomery in the ` Gypsy's Child . '
Did you ever read that sweet story ? ''
asked Rose , who was fond of tales of found-lings , and had read many .
`` I don't have any books to read , and all the spare time I get I run off into the woods ; that rests me better than stories , '' answered Phebe , as she finished one job and began on another .
Rose watched her as she got out a great pan of beans to look over , and wondered how it would seem to have life all work and no play .
Presently Phebe seemed to think it was her turn to ask questions , and said , wistfully , `` You've had lots of schooling , I suppose ? ''
`` Oh , dear me , yes !
I've been at boarding school nearly a year , and I 'm almost dead with lessons .
The more I got , the more Miss Power gave me , and I was so miserable that I ` most cried my eyes out .
Papa never gave me hard things to do , and he always taught me so pleasantly I loved to study .
Oh , we were so happy and so fond of one another !
But now he is gone , and I am left all alone . ''
The tear that would not come when Rose sat waiting for it came now of its own accord two of them in fact and rolled down her cheeks , telling the tale of love and sorrow better than any words could do it .
For a minute there was no sound in the kitchen but the little daughter's sobbing and the sympathetic patter of the rain .
Phebe stopped rattling her beans from one pan to another , and her eyes were full of pity as they rested on the curly head bent down on Rose's knee , for she saw that the heart under the pretty locket ached with its loss , and the dainty apron was used to dry sadder tears than any she had ever shed .
Somehow , she felt more contented with her brown calico gown and blue-checked pinafore ; envy changed to compassion ; and if she had dared she would have gone and hugged her afflicted guest .
Fearing that might not be considered proper , she said , in her cheery voice , `` I 'm sure you ain't all alone with such a lot of folks belonging to you , and all so rich and clever .
You'll be petted to pieces , Debby says , because you are the only girl in the family . ''
Phebe's last words made Rose smile in spite of her tears , and she looked out from behind her apron with an April face , saying in a tone of comic distress , `` That's one of my troubles !
I've got six aunts , and they all want me , and I don't know any of them very well .
Papa named this place the Aunt-hill , and now I see why . ''
Phebe laughed with her as she said encouragingly , `` Everyone calls it so , and it's a real good name , for all the Mrs. Campbells live handy by , and keep coming up to see the old ladies . ''
`` I could stand the aunts , but there are dozens of cousins , dreadful boys all of them , and I detest boys !
Some of them came to see me last Wednesday , but I was lying down , and when auntie came to call me I went under the quilt and pretended to be asleep .
I shall have to see them some time , but I do dread it so . ''
And Rose gave a shudder , for , having lived alone with her invalid father , she knew nothing of boys , and considered them a species of wild animal .
`` Oh !
I guess you'll like 'em .
I've seen 'em flying round when they come over from the Point , sometimes in their boats and sometimes on horseback .
If you like boats and horses , you'll enjoy yourself first-rate . ''
`` But I don't !
I 'm afraid of horses , and boats make me ill , and I hate boys ! ''
And poor Rose wrung her hands at the awful prospect before her .
One of these horrors alone she could have borne , but all together were too much for her , and she began to think of a speedy return to the detested school .
Phebe laughed at her woe till the beans danced in the pan , but tried to comfort her by suggesting a means of relief .
`` Perhaps your uncle will take you away where there ain't any boys .
Debby says he is a real kind man , and always bring heaps of nice things when he comes . ''
`` Yes , but you see that is another trouble , for I don't know Uncle Alec at all .
He hardly ever came to see us , though he sent me pretty things very often .
Now I belong to him , and shall have to mind him , till I am eighteen .
I may not like him a bit , and I fret about it all the time . ''
`` Well , I wouldn't borrow trouble , but have a real good time .
I 'm sure I should think I was in clover if I had folks and money , and nothing to do but enjoy myself , '' began Phebe , but got no further , for a sudden rush and tumble outside made them both jump .
`` It's thunder , '' said Phebe .
`` It's a circus ! ''
cried Rose , who from her elevated perch had caught glimpses of a gay cart of some sort and several ponies with flying manes and tails .
The sound died away , and the girls were about to continue their confidences when old Debby appeared , looking rather cross and sleepy after her nap .
`` You are wanted in the parlor , Miss Rose . ''
`` Has anybody come ? ''
`` Little girls shouldn't ask questions , but do as they are bid , '' was all Debby would answer .
`` I do hope it isn't Aunt Myra ; she always scares me out of my wits asking how my cough is , and groaning over me as if I was going to die , '' said Rose , preparing to retire the way she came , for the slide , being cut for the admission of bouncing Christmas turkeys and puddings , was plenty large enough for a slender girl .
`` Guess you'll wish it was Aunt Myra when you see who has come .
Don't never let me catch you coming into my kitchen that way again , or I'll shut you up in the big b ` iler , '' growled Debby , who thought it her duty to snub children on all occasions .
Rose scrambled into the china-closet as rapidly as possible , and there refreshed herself by making faces at Debby , while she settled her plumage and screwed up her courage .
Then she crept softly down the hall and peeped into the parlor .
No one appeared , and all was so still she felt sure the company was upstairs .
So she skipped boldly through the half-open folding-doors , to behold on the other side a sight that nearly took her breath away .
Seven boys stood in a row all ages , all sizes , all yellow-haired and blue-eyed , all in full Scotch costume , and all smiling , nodding , and saying as with one voice , `` How are you , cousin ? ''
Rose gave a little gasp , and looked wildly about her as if ready to fly , for fear magnified the seven and the room seemed full of boys .
Before she could run , however , the tallest lad stepped out of the line , saying pleasantly , `` Don't be frightened .
This is the Clan come to welcome you ; and I 'm the chief , Archie , at your service . ''
He held out his hand as he spoke , and Rose timidly put her own into a brown paw , which closed over the white morsel and held it as the chief continued his introductions .
`` We came in full rig , for we always turn out in style on grand occasions .
Hope you like it .
Now I'll tell you who these chaps are , and then we shall be all right .
This big one is Prince Charlie , Aunt Clara's boy .
She has but one , so he is an extra good one .
This old fellow is Mac , the bookworm , called Worm for short .
This sweet creature is Steve the Dandy .
Look at his gloves and top-knot , if you please .
They are Aunt Jane's lads , and a precious pair you 'd better believe .
These are the Brats , my brothers , Geordie and Will , and Jamie the Baby .
Now , my men , step out and show your manners . ''
At this command , to Rose's great dismay , six more hands were offered , and it was evident that she was expected to shake them all .
It was a trying moment to the bashful child ; but , remembering that they were her kinsmen come to welcome her , she tried her best to return the greeting cordially .
This impressive ceremony being over , the Clan broke ranks , and both rooms instantly appeared to be pervaded with boys .
Rose hastily retired to the shelter of a big chair and sat there watching the invaders and wondering when her aunt would come and rescue her .
As if bound to do their duty manfully , yet rather oppressed by it , each lad paused beside her chair in his wanderings , made a brief remark , received a still briefer answer , and then sheered off with a relieved expression .
Archie came first , and , leaning over the chair-back , observed in a paternal tone , `` I 'm glad you've come , cousin , and I hope you'll find the Aunt-hill pretty jolly . ''
`` I think I shall . ''
Mac shook his hair out of his eyes , stumbled over a stool , and asked abruptly , `` Did you bring any books with you ? ''
`` Four boxes full .
They are in the library . ''
Mac vanished from the room , and Steve , striking an attitude which displayed his costume effectively , said with an affable smile , `` We were sorry not to see you last Wednesday .
I hope your cold is better . ''
`` Yes , thank you . ''
And a smile began to dimple about Rose's mouth , as she remembered her retreat under the bed-cover .
Feeling that he had been received with distinguished marks of attention , Steve strolled away with his topknot higher than ever , and Prince Charlie pranced across the room , saying in a free and easy tone , `` Mamma sent her love and hopes you will be well enough to come over for a day next week .
It must be desperately dull here for a little thing like you . ''
`` I 'm thirteen and a half , though I do look small , '' cried Rose , forgetting her shyness in indignation at this insult to her newly acquired teens .
`` Beg pardon , ma'am ; never should have guessed it . ''
And Charlie went off with a laugh , glad to have struck a spark out of his meek cousin .
Geordie and Will came together , two sturdy eleven and twelve year olders , and , fixing their round blue eyes on Rose , fired off a question apiece , as if it was a shooting match and she the target .
`` Did you bring your monkey ? ''
`` No ; he is dead . ''
`` Are you going to have a boat ? ''
`` I hope not . ''
Here the two , with a right-about-face movement , abruptly marched away , and little Jamie demanded with childish frankness , `` Did you bring me anything nice ? ''
`` Yes , lots of candy , '' answered Rose , whereupon Jamie ascended into her lap with a sounding kiss and the announcement that he liked her very much .
This proceeding rather startled Rose , for the other lads looked and laughed , and in her confusion she said hastily to the young usurper , `` Did you see the circus go by ? ''
`` When ?
Where ? ''
cried all the boys in great excitement at once .
`` Just before you came .
At least I thought it was a circus , for I saw a red and black sort of cart and ever so many little ponies , and -- '' She got no farther , for a general shout made her pause suddenly , as Archie explained the joke by saying in the middle of his laugh , `` It was our new dog-cart and the Shetland ponies .
You'll never hear the last of your circus , cousin . ''
`` But there were so many , and they went so fast , and the cart was so very red , '' began Rose , trying to explain her mistake .
`` Come and see them all ! ''
cried the Prince .
And before she knew what was happening , she was borne away to the barn and tumultuously introduced to three shaggy ponies and the gay new dog-cart .
She had never visited these regions before , and had her doubts as to the propriety of her being there now , but when she suggested that `` Auntie might not like it , '' there was a general cry of , `` She told us to amuse you , and we can do it ever so much better out here than poking round in the house . ''
`` I 'm afraid I shall get cold without my sacque , '' began Rose , who wanted to stay , but felt rather out of her element .
`` No , you won't !
We'll fix you , '' cried the lads , as one clapped his cap on her head , another tied a rough jacket round her neck by the sleeves , a third neatly smothered her in a carriage blanket , and a fourth threw open the door of the old barouche that stood there , saying with a flourish , `` Step in , ma'am , and make yourself comfortable while we show you some fun . ''
So Rose sat in state enjoying herself very much , for the lads proceeded to dance a Highland Fling with a spirit and skill that made her clap her hands and laugh as she had not done for weeks .
`` How is that , my lassie ? ''
asked the Prince , coming up all flushed and breathless when the ballet was over .
`` It was splendid !
I never went to the theatre but once , and the dancing was not half so pretty as this .
What clever boys you must be ! ''
said Rose , smiling upon her kinsmen like a little queen upon her subjects .
`` Ah , we 're a fine lot , and that is only the beginning of our larks .
We haven't got the pipes here or we 'd , ` Sing for you , play for you A dulcy melody , ' '' answered Charlie , looking much elated at her praise .
`` I did not know we were Scotch ; papa never said anything about it , or seemed to care about Scotland , except to have me sing the old ballads , '' said Rose , beginning to feel as if she had left America behind her somewhere .
`` Neither did we till lately .
We've been reading Scott's novels , and all of a sudden we remembered that our grandfather was a Scotchman .
So we hunted up the old stories , got a bagpipe , put on our plaids , and went in , heart and soul , for the glory of the Clan .
We've been at it some time now , and it's great fun .
Our people like it , and I think we are a pretty canny set . ''
Archie said this from the other coach-step , where he had perched , while the rest climbed up before and behind to join in the chat as they rested .
`` I 'm Fitzjames and he's Roderick Dhu , and we'll give you the broadsword combat some day .
It's a great thing , you 'd better believe , '' added the Prince .
`` Yes , and you should hear Steve play the pipes .
He makes 'em skirl like a good one , '' cried Will from the box , eager to air the accomplishments of his race .
`` Mac's the fellow to hunt up the old stories and tell us how to dress right , and pick out rousing bits for us to speak and sing , '' put in Geordie , saying a good word for the absent Worm .
`` And what do you and Will do ? ''
asked Rose of Jamie , who sat beside her as if bound to keep her in sight till the promised gift had been handed over .
`` Oh , I 'm the little foot-page , and do errands , and Will and Geordie are the troops when we march , and the stags when we hunt , and the traitors when we want to cut any heads off . ''
`` They are very obliging , I 'm sure , '' said Rose , whereat the `` utility men '' beamed with modest pride and resolved to enact Wallace and Montrose as soon as possible for their cousin's special benefit .
`` Let's have a game of tag , '' cried the Prince , swinging himself up to a beam with a sounding slap on Stevie's shoulder .
Regardless of his gloves , Dandy tore after him , and the rest swarmed in every direction as if bent on breaking their necks and dislocating their joints as rapidly as possible .
It was a new and astonishing spectacle to Rose , fresh from a prim boarding-school , and she watched the active lads with breathless interest , thinking their antics far superior to those of Mops , the dear departed monkey .
Will had just covered himself with glory by pitching off a high loft head first and coming up all right , when Phebe appeared with a cloak , hood , and rubbers , also a message from Aunt Plenty that `` Miss Rose was to come in directly . ''
`` All right ; we'll bring her ! ''
answered Archie , issuing some mysterious order , which was so promptly obeyed that , before Rose could get out of the carriage , the boys had caught hold of the pole and rattled her out of the barn , round the oval and up to the front door with a cheer that brought two caps to an upper window , and caused Debby to cry aloud from the back porch , `` Them harum-scarum boys will certainly be the death of that delicate little creter ! ''
But the `` delicate little creter '' seemed all the better for her trip , and ran up the steps looking rosy , gay , and dishevelled , to be received with lamentation by Aunt Plenty , who begged her to go and lie down at once .
`` Oh , please don't !
We have come to tea with our cousin , and we'll be as good as gold if you'll let us stay , auntie , '' clamoured the boys , who not only approved of `` our cousin '' but had no mind to lose their tea , for Aunt Plenty's name but feebly expressed her bountiful nature .
`` Well , dears , you can ; only be quiet , and let Rose go and take her iron and be made tidy , and then we will see what we can find for supper , '' said the old lady as she trotted away , followed by a volley of directions for the approaching feast .
`` Marmalade for me , auntie . ''
`` Plenty of plum-cake , please . ''
`` Tell Debby to trot out the baked pears . ''
`` I 'm your man for lemon-pie , ma'am . ''
`` Do have fritters ; Rose will like 'em . ''
`` She 'd rather have tarts , I know . ''
When Rose came down , fifteen minutes later , with every curl smoothed and her most beruffled apron on , she found the boys loafing about the long hall , and paused on the half-way landing to take an observation , for till now she had not really examined her new-found cousins .
There was a strong family resemblance among them , though some of the yellow heads were darker than others , some of the cheeks brown instead of rosy , and the ages varied all the way from sixteen-year-old Archie to Jamie , who was ten years younger .
None of them were especially comely but the Prince , yet all were hearty , happy-looking lads , and Rose decided that boys were not as dreadful as she had expected to find them .
They were all so characteristically employed that she could not help smiling as she looked .
Archie and Charlie , evidently great cronies , were pacing up and down , shoulder to shoulder , whistling `` Bonnie Dundee '' ; Mac was reading in a corner , with his book close to his near-sighted eyes ; Dandy was arranging his hair before the oval glass in the hat-stand ; Geordie and Will investigating the internal economy of the moon-faced clock ; and Jamie lay kicking up his heels on the mat at the foot of the stairs , bent on demanding his sweeties the instant Rose appeared .
She guessed his intention , and forestalled his demand by dropping a handful of sugar-plums down upon him .
At his cry of rapture the other lads looked up and smiled involuntarily , for the little kinswoman standing there above was a winsome sight with her shy , soft eyes , bright hair , and laughing face .
The black frock reminded them of her loss , and filled the boyish hearts with a kindly desire to be good to `` our cousin , '' who had no longer any home but this .
`` There she is , as fine as you please , '' cried Steve , kissing his hand to her .
`` Come on , Missy ; tea is ready , '' added the Prince encouragingly .
`` I shall take her in . ''
And Archie offered his arm with great dignity , an honour that made Rose turn as red as a cherry and long to run upstairs again .
It was a merry supper , and the two elder boys added much to the fun by tormenting the rest with dark hints of some interesting event which was about to occur .
Something uncommonly fine , they declared it was , but enveloped in the deepest mystery for the present .
`` Did I ever see it ? ''
asked Jamie .
`` Not to remember it ; but Mac and Steve have , and liked it immensely , '' answered Archie , thereby causing the two mentioned to neglect Debby's delectable fritters for several minutes , while they cudgelled their brains .
`` Who will have it first ? ''
asked Will , with his mouth full of marmalade .
`` Aunt Plenty , I guess . ''
`` When will she have it ? ''
demanded Geordie , bouncing in his seat with impatience .
`` Sometime on Monday . ''
`` Heart alive !
what is the boy talking about ? ''
cried the old lady from behind the tall urn , which left little to be seen but the topmost bow of her cap .
`` Doesn't auntie know ? ''
asked a chorus of voices .
`` No ; and that's the best of the joke , for she is desperately fond of it . ''
`` What colour is it ? ''
asked Rose , joining in the fun .
`` Blue and brown . ''
`` Is it good to eat ? ''
asked Jamie .
`` Some people think so , but I shouldn't like to try it , '' answered Charlie , laughing so he split his tea .
`` Who does it belong to ? ''
put in Steve .
Archie and the Prince stared at one another rather blankly for a minute , then Archie answered with a twinkle of the eye that made Charlie explode again , `` To Grandfather Campbell . ''
This was a poser , and they gave up the puzzle , though Jamie confided to Rose that he did not think he could live till Monday without knowing what this remarkable thing was .
Soon after tea the Clan departed , singing `` All the blue bonnets are over the border , '' at the tops of their voices .
`` Well , dear , how do you like your cousins ? ''
asked Aunt Plenty , as the last pony frisked round the corner and the din died away .
`` Pretty well , ma'am ; but I like Phebe better . ''
An answer which caused Aunt Plenty to hold up her hands in despair and trot away to tell sister Peace that she never should understand that child , and it was a mercy Alec was coming soon to take the responsibility off their hands .
Fatigued by the unusual exertions of the afternoon , Rose curled herself up in the sofa corner to rest and think about the great mystery , little guessing that she was to know it first of all .
Right in the middle of her meditations she fell asleep and dreamed she was at home again in her own little bed .
She seemed to wake and see her father bending over her ; to hear him say , `` My little Rose '' ; to answer , `` Yes , papa '' ; and then to feel him take her in his arms and kiss her tenderly .
So sweet , so real was the dream , that she started up with a cry of joy to find herself in the arms of a brown , bearded man , who held her close , and whispered in a voice so like her father's that she clung to him involuntarily , `` This is my little girl , and I am Uncle Alec . ''
When Rose woke next morning , she was not sure whether she had dreamed what occurred the night before , or it had actually happened .
So she hopped up and dressed , although it was an hour earlier than she usually rose , for she could not sleep any more , being possessed with a strong desire to slip down and see if the big portmanteau and packing cases were really in the hall .
She seemed to remember tumbling over them when she went to bed , for the aunts had sent her off very punctually , because they wanted their pet nephew all to themselves .
The sun was shining , and Rose opened her window to let in the soft May air fresh from the sea .
As she leaned over her little balcony , watching an early bird get the worm , and wondering how she should like Uncle Alec , she saw a man leap the garden wall and come whistling up the path .
At first she thought it was some trespasser , but a second look showed her that it was her uncle returning from an early dip into the sea .
She had hardly dared to look at him the night before , because whenever she tried to do so she always found a pair of keen blue eyes looking at her .
Now she could take a good stare at him as he lingered along , looking about him as if glad to see the old place again .
A brown , breezy man , in a blue jacket , with no hat on the curly head , which he shook now and then like a water dog ; broad-shouldered , alert in his motions , and with a general air of strength and stability about him which pleased Rose , though she could not explain the feeling of comfort it gave her .
She had just said to herself , with a sense of relief , `` I guess I shall like him , though he looks as if he made people mind , '' when he lifted his eyes to examine the budding horse-chestnut overhead , and saw the eager face peering down at him .
He waved his hand to her , nodded , and called out in a bluff , cheery voice , `` You are on deck early , little niece . ''
`` I got up to see if you had really come , uncle . ''
`` Did you ?
Well , come down here and make sure of it . ''
`` I 'm not allowed to go out before breakfast , sir . ''
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
with a shrug .
`` Then I'll come aboard and salute , '' he added ; and , to Rose's great amazement , Uncle Alec went up one of the pillars of the back piazza hand over hand , stepped across the roof , and swung himself into her balcony , saying , as he landed on the wide balustrade : `` Have you any doubts about me now , ma'am ? ''
Rose was so taken aback , she could only answer with a smile as she went to meet him .
`` How does my girl do this morning ? ''
he asked , taking the little cold hand she gave him in both his big warm ones .
`` Pretty well , thank you , sir . ''
`` Ah , but it should be very well .
Why isn't it ? ''
`` I always wake up with a headache , and feel tired . ''
`` Don't you sleep well ? ''
`` I lie awake a long time , and then I dream , and my sleep does not seem to rest me much . ''
`` What do you do all day ? ''
`` Oh , I read , and sew a little , and take naps , and sit with auntie . ''
`` No running about out of doors , or house-work , or riding , hey ? ''
`` Aunt Plenty says I 'm not strong enough for much exercise .
I drive out with her sometimes , but I don't care for it . ''
`` I 'm not surprised at that , '' said Uncle Alec , half to himself , adding , in his quick way : `` Who have you had to play with ? ''
`` No one but Ariadne Blish , and she was such a goose I couldn't bear her .
The boys came yesterday , and seemed rather nice ; but , of course , I couldn't play with them . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` I 'm too old to play with boys . ''
`` Not a bit of it ; that's just what you need , for you've been molly-coddled too much .
They are good lads , and you'll be mixed up with them more or less for years to come , so you may as well be friends and playmates at once .
I will look you up some girls also , if I can find a sensible one who is not spoilt by her nonsensical education . ''
`` Phebe is sensible , I 'm sure , and I like her , though I only saw her yesterday , '' cried Rose , waking up suddenly .
`` And who is Phebe , if you please ? ''
Rose eagerly told all she knew , and Uncle Alec listened , with an odd smile lurking about his mouth , though his eyes were quite sober as he watched the face before him .
`` I 'm glad to see that you are not aristocratic in your tastes , but I don't quite make out why you like this young lady from the poor-house . ''
`` You may laugh at me , but I do .
I can't tell why , only she seems so happy and busy , and sings so beautifully , and is strong enough to scrub and sweep , and hasn't any troubles to plague her , '' said Rose , making a funny jumble of reasons in her efforts to explain .
`` How do you know that ? ''
`` Oh , I was telling her about mine , and asked if she had any , and she said , ` No , only I 'd like to go to school , and I mean to some day . ''
`` So she doesn't call desertion , poverty , and hard work , troubles ?
She's a brave little girl , and I shall be proud to know her . ''
And Uncle Alec gave an approving nod , that made Rose wish she had been the one to earn it .
`` But what are these troubles of yours , child ? ''
he asked , after a minute of silence .
`` Please don't ask me , uncle . ''
`` Can't you tell them to me as well as to Phebe ? ''
Something in his tone made Rose feel that it would be better to speak out and be done with it , so she answered , with sudden colour and averted eyes , `` The greatest one was losing dear papa . ''
As she said that , Uncle Alec's arm came gently round her , and he drew her to him , saying , in the voice so like papa's , `` That is a trouble which I can not cure , my child ; but I shall try to make you feel it less .
What else , dear ? ''
`` I am so tired and poorly all the time , I can't do anything I want to , and it makes me cross , '' sighed Rose , rubbing the aching head like a fretful child .
`` That we can cure and we will , '' said her uncle , with a decided nod that made the curls bob on his head , to that Rose saw the gray ones underneath the brown .
`` Aunt Myra says I have no constitution , and never shall be strong , '' observed Rose , in a pensive tone , as if it was rather a nice thing to be an invalid .
`` Aunt Myra is a ahem !
an excellent woman , but it is her hobby to believe that everyone is tottering on the brink of the grave ; and , upon my life , I believe she is offended if people don't fall into it !
We will show her how to make constitutions and turn pale-faced little ghosts into rosy , hearty girls .
That's my business , you know , '' he added , more quietly , for his sudden outburst had rather startled Rose .
`` I had forgotten you were a doctor .
I 'm glad of it , for I do want to be well , only I hope you won't give me much medicine , for I've taken quarts already , and it does me no good . ''
As she spoke , Rose pointed to a little table just inside the window , on which appeared a regiment of bottles .
`` Ah , ha !
Now we'll see what mischief these blessed women have been at . ''
And , making a long arm , Dr. Alec set the bottles on the wide railing before him , examined each carefully , smiled over some , frowned over others , and said , as he put down the last : `` Now I'll show you the best way to take these messes . ''
And , as quick as a flash , he sent one after another smashing down into the posy-beds below .
`` But Aunt Plenty won't like it ; and Aunt Myra will be angry , for she sent most of them ! ''
cried Rose , half frightened and half pleased at such energetic measures .
`` You are my patient now , and I'll take the responsibility .
My way of giving physic is evidently the best , for you look better already , '' he said , laughing so infectiously that Rose followed suit , saying saucily , `` If I don't like your medicines any better than those , I shall throw them into the garden , and then what will you do ? ''
`` When I prescribe such rubbish , I'll give you leave to pitch it overboard as soon as you like .
Now what is the next trouble ? ''
`` I hoped you would forget to ask . ''
`` But how can I help you if I don't know them ?
Come , let us have No. 3 . ''
`` It is very wrong , I suppose , but I do sometimes wish I had not quite so many aunts .
They are all very good to me , and I want to please them ; but they are so different , I feel sort of pulled to pieces among them , '' said Rose , trying to express the emotions of a stray chicken with six hens all clucking over it at once .
Uncle Alec threw back his head and laughed like a boy , for he could entirely understand how the good ladies had each put in her oar and tried to paddle her own way , to the great disturbance of the waters and the entire bewilderment of poor Rose .
`` I intend to try a course of uncles now , and see how that suits your constitution .
I 'm going to have you all to myself , and no one is to give a word of advice unless I ask it .
There is no other way to keep order aboard , and I am captain of this little craft , for a time at least .
What comes next ? ''
But Rose stuck there , and grew so red , her uncle guessed what that trouble was .
`` I don't think I can tell this one .
It wouldn't be polite , and I feel pretty sure that it isn't going to be a trouble any more . ''
As she blushed and stammered over these words , Dr. Alec turned his eyes away to the distant sea , and said so seriously , so tenderly , that she felt every word and long remembered them , `` My child , I don't expect you to love and trust me all at once , but I do want you to believe that I shall give my whole heart to this new duty ; and if I make mistakes , as I probably shall , no one will grieve over them more bitterly than I .
It is my fault that I am a stranger to you , when I want to be your best friend .
That is one of my mistakes , and I never repented it more deeply than I do now .
Your father and I had a trouble once , and I thought I could never forgive him ; so I kept away for years .
Thank God , we made it all up the last time I saw him , and he told me then , that if he was forced to leave her he should bequeath his little girl to me as a token of his love .
I can't fill his place , but I shall try to be a father to her ; and if she learns to love me half as well as she did the good one she has lost , I shall be a proud and happy man .
Will she believe this and try ? ''
Something in Uncle Alec's face touched Rose to the heart , and when he held out his hand with that anxious troubled look in his eyes , she was moved to put up her innocent lips and seal the contract with a confiding kiss .
The strong arm held her close a minute , and she felt the broad chest heave once as if with a great sigh of relief ; but not a word was spoken till a tap at the door made both start .
Rose popped her head through the window to say `` come in , '' while Dr. Alec hastily rubbed the sleeve of his jacket across his eyes and began to whistle again .
Phebe appeared with a cup of coffee .
`` Debby told me to bring this and help you get up , '' she said , opening her black eyes wide , as if she wondered how on earth `` the sailor man '' got there .
`` I 'm all dressed , so I don't need any help .
I hope that is good and strong , '' added Rose , eyeing the steaming cup with an eager look .
But she did not get it , for a brown hand took possession of it as her uncle said quickly , `` Hold hard , my lass , and let me overhaul that dose before you take it .
Do you drink all this strong coffee every morning , Rose ? ''
`` Yes , sir , and I like it .
Auntie says it ` tones ' me up , and I always feel better after it . ''
`` This accounts for the sleepless nights , the flutter your heart gets into at the least start , and this is why that cheek of yours is pale yellow instead of rosy red .
No more coffee for you , my dear , and by and by you'll see that I am right .
Any new milk downstairs , Phebe ? ''
`` Yes , sir , plenty right in from the barn . ''
`` That's the drink for my patient .
Go bring me a pitcherful , and another cup ; I want a draught myself .
This won't hurt the honeysuckles , for they have no nerves to speak of . ''
And , to Rose's great discomfort , the coffee went after the medicine .
Dr. Alec saw the injured look she put on , but took no notice , and presently banished it by saying pleasantly , `` I've got a capital little cup among my traps , and I'll give it to you to drink your milk in , as it is made of wood that is supposed to improve whatever is put into it something like a quassia cup .
That reminds me ; one of the boxes Phebe wanted to lug upstairs last night is for you .
Knowing that I was coming home to find a ready-made daughter , I picked up all sorts of odd and pretty trifles along the way , hoping she would be able to find something she liked among them all .
Early to-morrow we'll have a grand rummage .
Here's our milk !
I propose the health of Miss Rose Campbell and drink it with all my heart . ''
It was impossible for Rose to pout with the prospect of a delightful boxful of gifts dancing before her eyes ; so , in spite of herself , she smiled as she drank her own health , and found that fresh milk was not a hard dose to take .
`` Now I must be off , before I am caught again with my wig in a toss , '' said Dr. Alec , preparing to descend the way he came .
`` Do you always go in and out like a cat , uncle ? ''
asked Rose , much amused at his odd ways .
`` I used to sneak out of my window when I was a boy , so I need not disturb the aunts , and now I rather like it , for it's the shortest road , and it keeps me limber when I have no rigging to climb .
Good-bye till breakfast . ''
And away he went down the water-spout , over the roof , and vanished among the budding honey-suckles below .
`` Ain't he a funny guardeen ? ''
exclaimed Phebe , as she went off with the cups .
`` He is a very kind one , I think , '' answered Rose , following , to prowl round the big boxes and try to guess which was hers .
When her uncle appeared at sound of the bell , he found her surveying with an anxious face a new dish that smoked upon the table .
`` Got a fresh trouble , Rosy ? ''
he asked , stroking her smooth head .
`` Uncle , are you going to make me eat oatmeal ? ''
asked Rose , in a tragic tone .
`` Don't you like it ? ''
`` I de-test it ! ''
answered Rose , with all the emphasis which a turned-up nose , a shudder , and a groan could give to the three words .
`` You are not a true Scotchwoman , if you don't like the ` parritch . '
It's a pity , for I made it myself , and thought we 'd have such a good time with all that cream to float it in .
Well , never mind . ''
And he sat down with a disappointed air .
Rose had made up her mind to be obstinate about it , because she did heartily `` detest '' the dish ; but as Uncle Alec did not attempt to make her obey , she suddenly changed her mind and thought she would .
`` I'll try to eat it to please you , uncle ; but people are always saying how wholesome it is , and that makes me hate it , '' she said , half-ashamed at her silly excuse .
`` I do want you to like it , because I wish my girl to be as well and strong as Jessie's boys , who are brought up on this in the good old fashion .
No hot bread and fried stuff for them , and they are the biggest and bonniest lads of the lot .
Bless you , auntie , and good morning ! ''
Dr. Alec turned to greet the old lady , and , with a firm resolve to eat or die in the attempt , Rose sat down .
In five minutes she forgot what she was eating , so interested was she in the chat that went on .
It amused her very much to hear Aunt Plenty call her forty-year-old nephew `` my dear boy '' ; and Uncle Alec was so full of lively gossip about all creation in general , and the Aunt-hill in particular , that the detested porridge vanished without a murmur .
`` You will go to church with us , I hope , Alec , if you are not too tired , '' said the old lady , when breakfast was over .
`` I came all the way from Calcutta for that express purpose , ma'am .
Only I must send the sisters word of my arrival , for they don't expect me till to-morrow , you know , and there will be a row in church if those boys see me without warning . ''
`` I'll send Ben up the hill , and you can step over to Myra's yourself ; it will please her , and you will have plenty of time . ''
Dr. Alec was off at once , and they saw no more of him till the old barouche was at the door , and Aunt Plenty just rustling downstairs in her Sunday best , with Rose like a little black shadow behind her .
Away they drove in state , and all the way Uncle Alec's hat was more off his head than on , for everyone they met smiled and bowed , and gave him as blithe a greeting as the day permitted .
It was evident that the warning had been a wise one , for , in spite of time and place , the lads were in such a ferment that their elders sat in momentary dread of an unseemly outbreak somewhere .
It was simply impossible to keep those fourteen eyes off Uncle Alec , and the dreadful things that were done during sermon-time will hardly be believed .
Rose dared not look up after a while , for these bad boys vented their emotions upon her till she was ready to laugh and cry with mingled amusement and vexation .
Charlie winked rapturously at her behind his mother's fan ; Mac openly pointed to the tall figure beside her ; Jamie stared fixedly over the back of his pew , till Rose thought his round eyes would drop out of his head ; George fell over a stool and dropped three books in his excitement ; Will drew sailors and Chinamen on his clean cuffs , and displayed them , to Rose's great tribulation ; Steve nearly upset the whole party by burning his nose with salts , as he pretended to be overcome by his joy ; even dignified Archie disgraced himself by writing in his hymn book , `` Isn't he blue and brown ? ''
and passing it politely to Rose .
Her only salvation was trying to fix her attention upon Uncle Mac a portly , placid gentleman , who seemed entirely unconscious of the iniquities of the Clan , and dozed peacefully in his pew corner .
This was the only uncle Rose had met for years , for Uncle Jem and Uncle Steve , the husbands of Aunt Jessie and Aunt Clara , were at sea , and Aunt Myra was a widow .
Uncle Mac was a merchant , very rich and busy , and as quiet as a mouse at home , for he was in such a minority among the women folk he dared not open his lips , and let his wife rule undisturbed .
Rose liked the big , kindly , silent man who came to her when papa died , was always sending her splendid boxes of goodies at school , and often invited her into his great warehouse , full of teas and spices , wines and all sorts of foreign fruits , there to eat and carry away whatever she liked .
She had secretly regretted that he was not to be her guardian ; but since she had seen Uncle Alec she felt better about it , for she did not particularly admire Aunt Jane .
When church was over , Dr. Alec got into the porch as quickly as possible , and there the young bears had a hug all round , while the sisters shook hands and welcomed him with bright faces and glad hearts .
Rose was nearly crushed flat behind a door in that dangerous passage from pew to porch ; but Uncle Mac rescued her , and put her into the carriage for safe keeping .
`` Now , girls , I want you to come and dine with Alec ; Mac also , of course .
But I can not ask the boys , for we did not expect this dear fellow till tomorrow , you know , so I made no preparations .
Send the lads home , and let them wait till Monday , for really I was shocked at their behaviour in church , '' said Aunt Plenty , as she followed Rose .
In any other place the defrauded boys would have set up a howl ; as it was , they growled and protested till Dr. Alec settled the matter by saying , `` Never mind , old chaps , I'll make it up to you to-morrow , if you sheer off quietly ; if you don't , not a blessed thing shall you have out of my big boxes . ''
All dinner-time Rose felt that she was going to be talked about , and afterward she was sure of it , for Aunt Plenty whispered to her as they went into the parlour , `` Run up and sit awhile with Sister Peace , my dear .
She likes to have you read while she rests , and we are going to be busy . ''
Rose obeyed , and the quiet rooms above were so like a church that she soon composed her ruffled feelings , and was unconsciously a little minister of happiness to the sweet old lady , who for years had sat there patiently waiting to be set free from pain .
Rose knew the sad romance of her life , and it gave a certain tender charm to this great-aunt of hers , whom she already loved .
When Peace was twenty , she was about to be married ; all was done , the wedding dress lay ready , the flowers were waiting to be put on , the happy hour at hand , when word came that the lover was dead .
They thought that gentle Peace would die , too ; but she bore it bravely , put away her bridal gear , took up her life afresh , and lived on a beautiful , meek woman , with hair as white as snow and cheeks that never bloomed again .
She wore no black , but soft , pale colours , as if always ready for the marriage that had never come .
For thirty years she had lived on , fading slowly , but cheerful , busy , and full of interest in all that went on in the family ; especially the joys and sorrows of the young girls growing up about her , and to them she was adviser , confidante , and friend in all their tender trials and delights .
A truly beautiful old maiden , with her silvery hair , tranquil face , and an atmosphere of repose about her that soothed whoever came to her !
Aunt Plenty was utterly dissimilar , being a stout , brisk old lady , with a sharp eye , a lively tongue , and a face like a winter-apple .
Always trotting , chatting , and bustling , she was a regular Martha , cumbered with the cares of this world and quite happy in them .
Rose was right ; and while she softly read psalms to Aunt Peace , the other ladies were talking about her little self in the frankest manner .
`` Well , Alec , how do you like your ward ? ''
began Aunt Jane , as they all settled down , and Uncle Mac deposited himself in a corner to finish his doze .
`` I should like her better if I could have begun at the beginning , and so got a fair start .
Poor George led such a solitary life that the child has suffered in many ways , and since he died she has been going on worse than ever , judging from the state I find her in . ''
`` My dear boy , we did what we thought best while waiting for you to wind up your affairs and get home .
I always told George he was wrong to bring her up as he did ; but he never took my advice , and now here we are with this poor dear child upon our hands .
I , for one , freely confess that I don't know what to do with her any more than if she was one of those strange , outlandish birds you used to bring home from foreign parts . ''
And Aunt Plenty gave a perplexed shake of the head which caused great commotion among the stiff loops of purple ribbon that bristled all over the cap like crocus buds .
`` If my advice had been taken , she would have remained at the excellent school where I placed her .
But our aunt thought best to remove her because she complained , and she has been dawdling about ever since she came .
A most ruinous state of things for a morbid , spoilt girl like Rose , '' said Mrs. Jane , severely .
She had never forgiven the old ladies for yielding to Rose's pathetic petition that she might wait her guardian's arrival before beginning another term at the school , which was a regular Blimber hot-bed , and turned out many a feminine Toots .
`` I never thought it the proper school for a child in good circumstances an heiress , in fact , as Rose is .
It is all very well for girls who are to get their own living by teaching , and that sort of thing ; but all she needs is a year or two at a fashionable finishing school , so that at eighteen she can come out with eclat , '' put in Aunt Clara , who had been a beauty and a belle , and was still a handsome woman .
`` Dear , dear !
how short-sighted you all are to be discussing education and plans for the future , when this unhappy child is so plainly marked for the tomb , '' sighed Aunt Myra , with a lugubrious sniff and a solemn wag of the funereal bonnet , which she refused to remove , being afflicted with a chronic catarrh .
`` Now , it is my opinion that the dear thing only wants freedom , rest , and care .
There is look in her eyes that goes to my heart , for it shows that she feels the need of what none of us can give her a mother , '' said Aunt Jessie , with tears in her own bright eyes at the thought of her boys being left , as Rose was , to the care of others .
Uncle Alec , who had listened silently as each spoke , turned quickly towards the last sister , and said , with a decided nod of approval , `` You've got it , Jessie ; and , with you to help me , I hope to make the child feel that she is not quite fatherless and motherless . ''
`` I'll do my best , Alec ; and I think you will need me , for , wise as you are , you can not understand a tender , timid little creature like Rose as a woman can , '' said Mrs. Jessie , smiling back at him with a heart full of motherly goodwill .
`` I can not help feeling that I , who have had a daughter of my own , can best bring up a girl ; and I am very much surprised that George did not entrust her to me , '' observed Aunt Myra , with an air of melancholy importance , for she was the only one who had given a daughter to the family , and she felt that she had distinguished herself , though ill-natured people said that she had dosed her darling to death .
`` I never blamed him in the least , when I remember the perilous experiments you tried with poor Carrie , '' began Mrs. Jane , in her hard voice .
`` Jane Campbell , I will not hear a word !
My sainted Caroline is a sacred object , '' cried Aunt Myra , rising as if to leave the room .
Dr. Alec detained her , feeling that he must define his position at once , and maintain it manfully if he hoped to have any success in his new undertaking .
`` Now , my dear souls , don't let us quarrel and make Rose a bone of contention though , upon my word , she is almost a bone , poor little lass !
You have had her among you for a year , and done what you liked .
I can not say that your success is great , but that is owing to too many fingers in the pie .
Now , I intend to try my way for a year , and if at the end of it she is not in better trim than now , I'll give up the case , and hand her over to someone else .
That's fair , I think . ''
`` She will not be here a year hence , poor darling , so no one need dread future responsibility , '' said Aunt Myra , folding her black gloves as if all ready for the funeral .
`` By Jupiter !
Myra , you are enough to damp the ardour of a saint ! ''
cried Dr. Alec , with a sudden spark in his eyes .
`` Your croaking will worry that child out of her wits , for she is an imaginative puss , and will fret and fancy untold horrors .
You have put it into her head that she has no constitution , and she rather likes the idea .
If she had not had a pretty good one , she would have been ` marked for the tomb ' by this time , at the rate you have been going on with her .
I will not have any interference please understand that ; so just wash your hands of her , and let me manage till I want help , then I'll ask for it . ''
`` Hear , hear ! ''
came from the corner where Uncle Mac was apparently wrapt in slumber .
`` You were appointed guardian , so we can do nothing .
But I predict that the girl will be spoilt , utterly spoilt , '' answered Mrs. Jane , grimly .
`` Thank you , sister .
I have an idea that if a woman can bring up two boys as perfectly as you do yours , a man , if he devotes his whole mind to it , may at least attempt as much with one girl , '' replied Dr. Alec , with a humorous look that tickled the others immensely , for it was a well-known fact in the family that Jane's boys were more indulged than all the other lads put together .
`` I am quite easy , for I really do think that Alec will improve the child's health ; and by the time his year is out , it will be quite soon enough for her to go to Madame Roccabella's and be finished off , '' said Aunt Clara , settling her rings , and thinking , with languid satisfaction , of the time when she could bring out a pretty and accomplished niece .
`` I suppose you will stay here in the old place , unless you think of marrying , and it's high time you did , '' put in Mrs. Jane , much nettled at her brother's last hit .
`` No , thank you .
Come and have a cigar , Mac , '' said Dr. Alec , abruptly .
`` Don't marry ; women enough in the family already , '' muttered Uncle Mac ; and then the gentlemen hastily fled .
`` Aunt Peace would like to see you all , she says , '' was the message Rose brought before the ladies could begin again .
`` Hectic , hectic !
dear me , dear me ! ''
murmured Aunt Myra , as the shadow of her gloomy bonnet fell upon Rose , and the stiff tips of a black glove touched the cheek where the colour deepened under so many eyes .
`` I am glad these pretty curls are natural ; they will be invaluable by and by , '' said Aunt Clara , taking an observation with her head on one side .
`` Now that your uncle has come , I no longer expect you to review the studies of the past year .
I trust your time will not be entirely wasted in frivolous sports , however , '' added Aunt Jane , sailing out of the room with the air of a martyr .
Aunt Jessie said not a word , but kissed her little niece , with a look of tender sympathy that made Rose cling to her a minute , and follow her with grateful eyes as the door closed behind her .
After everybody had gone home , Dr. Alec paced up and down the lower hall in the twilight for an hour , thinking so intently that sometimes he frowned , sometimes he smiled , and more than once he stood still in a brown study .
All of a sudden he said , half aloud , as if he had made up his mind , `` I might as well begin at once , and give the child something new to think about , for Myra's dismals and Jane's lectures have made her as blue as a little indigo bag . ''
Diving into one of the trunks that stood in a corner , he brought up , after a brisk rummage , a silken cushion , prettily embroidered , and a quaint cup of dark carved wood .
`` This will do for a start , '' he said , as he plumped up the cushion and dusted the cup .
`` It won't do to begin too energetically , or Rose will be frightened .
I must beguile her gently and pleasantly along till I've won her confidence , and then she will be ready for anything . ''
Just then Phebe came out of the dining-room with a plate of brown bread , for Rose had been allowed no hot biscuit for tea .
`` I'll relieve you of some of that , '' said Dr. Alec , and , helping himself to a generous slice , he retired to the study , leaving Phebe to wonder at his appetite .
She would have wondered still more if she had seen him making that brown bread into neat little pills , which he packed into an attractive ivory box , out of which he emptied his own bits of lovage .
`` There !
if they insist on medicine , I'll order these , and no harm will be done .
I will have my own way , but I'll keep the peace , if possible , and confess the joke when my experiment has succeeded , '' he said to himself , looking very much like a mischievous boy , as he went on with his innocent prescriptions .
Rose was playing softly on the small organ that stood in the upper hall , so that Aunt Peace could enjoy it ; and all the while he talked with the old ladies , Uncle Alec was listening to the fitful music of the child , and thinking of another Rose who used to play for him .
As the clock struck eight , he called out , `` Time for my girl to be abed , else she won't be up early , and I 'm full of jolly plans for to-morrow .
Come and see what I've found for you to begin upon . ''
Rose ran in and listened with bright attentive face , while Dr. Alec said impressively , `` In my wanderings over the face of the earth , I have picked up some excellent remedies , and , as they are rather agreeable ones , I think you and I will try them .
This is a herb-pillow , given to me by a wise old woman when I was ill in India .
It is filled with saffron , poppies , and other soothing plants ; so lay your little head on it to-night , sleep sweetly without a dream , and wake to-morrow without a pain . ''
`` Shall I really ?
How nice it smells . ''
And Rose willingly received the pretty pillow , and stood enjoying its faint , sweet odour , as she listened to the doctor's next remedy .
`` This is the cup I told you of .
Its virtue depends , they say , on the drinker filling it himself ; so you must learn to milk .
I'll teach you . ''
`` I 'm afraid I never can , '' said Rose ; but she surveyed the cup with favour , for a funny little imp danced on the handle , as if all ready to take a header into the white sea below .
`` Don't you think she ought to have something more strengthening than milk , Alec ?
I really shall feel anxious if she does not have a tonic of some sort , '' said Aunt Plenty , eyeing the new remedies suspiciously , for she had more faith in her old-fashioned doses than all the magic cups and poppy pillows of the East .
`` Well , ma'am , I 'm willing to give her a pill , if you think best .
It is a very simple one , and very large quantities may be taken without harm .
You know hasheesh is the extract of hemp ?
Well , this is a preparation of corn and rye , much used in old times , and I hope it will be again . ''
`` Dear me , how singular ! ''
said Aunt Plenty , bringing her spectacles to bear upon the pills , with a face so full of respectful interest that it was almost too much for Dr. Alec's gravity .
`` Take one in the morning , and a good-night to you , my dear , '' he said , dismissing his patient with a hearty kiss .
Then , as she vanished , he put both hands into his hair , exclaiming , with a comical mixture of anxiety and amusement , `` When I think what I have undertaken , I declare to you , aunt , I feel like running away and not coming back till Rose is eighteen ! ''
When Rose came out of her chamber , cup in hand , next morning , the first person she saw was Uncle Alec standing on the threshold of the room opposite , which he appeared to be examining with care .
When he heard her step , he turned about and began to sing , `` Where are you going , my pretty maid ? ''
`` I 'm going a-milking , sir , she said , '' answered Rose , waving the cup ; and then they finished the verse together in fine style .
Before either spoke , a head , in a nightcap so large and beruffled that it looked like a cabbage , popped out of a room farther down the hall , and an astonished voice exclaimed , `` What in the world are you doing about so early ? ''
`` Clearing our pipes for the day , ma'am .
Look here , auntie , can I have this room ? ''
said Dr. Alec , making her a sailor's bow .
`` Any room you like , except sister's . ''
`` Thanks .
And may I go rummaging round in the garrets and glory-holes to furnish it as I like ? ''
`` My dear boy , you may turn the house upside down if you will only stay in it . ''
`` That's a handsome offer , I 'm sure .
I'll stay , ma'am ; here's my little anchor , so you will get more than you want of me this time . ''
`` That's impossible !
Put on your jacket , Rose .
Don't tire her out with antics , Alec .
Yes , sister , I 'm coming ! ''
and the cabbage vanished suddenly .
The first milking lesson was a droll one ; but after several scares and many vain attempts , Rose at last managed to fill her cup , while Ben held Clover's tail so that it could not flap , and Dr. Alec kept her from turning to stare at the new milkmaid , who objected to both these proceedings very much .
`` You look chilly in spite of all this laughing .
Take a smart run round the garden and get up a glow , '' said the doctor , as they left the barn .
`` I 'm too old for running , uncle ; Miss Power said it was not lady-like for girls in their teens , '' answered Rose , primly .
`` I take the liberty of differing from Madame Prunes and Prisms , and , as your physician , I order you to run .
Off with you ! ''
said Uncle Alec , with a look and a gesture that made Rose scurry away as fast as she could go .
Anxious to please him , she raced round the beds till she came back to the porch where he stood , and , dropping down upon the steps , she sat panting , with cheeks as rosy as the rigolette on her shoulders .
`` Very well done , child ; I see you have not lost the use of your limbs though you are in your teens .
That belt is too tight ; unfasten it , then you can take a long breath without panting so . ''
`` It isn't tight , sir ; I can breathe perfectly well , '' began Rose , trying to compose herself .
Her uncle's only answer was to lift her up and unhook the new belt of which she was so proud .
The moment the clasp was open the belt flew apart several inches , for it was impossible to restrain the involuntary sigh of relief that flatly contradicted her words .
`` Why , I didn't know it was tight !
it didn't feel so a bit .
Of course it would open if I puff like this , but I never do , because I hardly ever run , '' explained Rose , rather discomfited by this discovery .
`` I see you don't half fill your lungs , and so you can wear this absurd thing without feeling it .
The idea of cramping a tender little waist in a stiff band of leather and steel just when it ought to be growing , '' said Dr. Alec , surveying the belt with great disfavour as he put the clasp forward several holes , to Rose's secret dismay , for she was proud of her slender figure , and daily rejoiced that she wasn't as stout as Luly Miller , a former schoolmate , who vainly tried to repress her plumpness .
`` It will fall off if it is so loose , '' she said anxiously , as she stood watching him pull her precious belt about .
`` Not if you keep taking long breaths to hold it on .
That is what I want you to do , and when you have filled this out we will go on enlarging it till your waist is more like that of Hebe , goddess of health , and less like that of a fashion-plate the ugliest thing imaginable . ''
`` How it does look ! ''
and Rose gave a glance of scorn at the loose belt hanging round her trim little waist .
`` It will be lost , and then I shall feel badly , for it cost ever so much , and is real steel and Russia leather .
Just smell how nice . ''
`` If it is lost I'll give you a better one .
A soft silken sash is much fitter for a pretty child like you than a plated harness like this ; and I've got no end of Italian scarfs and Turkish sashes among my traps .
Ah !
that makes you feel better , doesn't it ? ''
and he pinched the cheek that had suddenly dimpled with a smile .
`` It is very silly of me , but I can't help liking to know that '' here she stopped and blushed and held down her head , ashamed to add , `` you think I am pretty . ''
Dr. Alec's eyed twinkled , but he said very soberly , `` Rose , are you vain ? ''
`` I 'm afraid I am , '' answered a very meek voice from behind the veil of hair that hid the red face .
`` That is a sad fault . ''
And he sighed as if grieved at the confession .
`` I know it is , and I try not to be ; but people praise me , and I can't help liking it , for I really don't think I am repulsive . ''
The last word and the funny tone in which it was uttered were too much for Dr. Alec , and he laughed in spite of himself , to Rose's great relief .
`` I quite agree with you ; and in order that you may be still less repulsive , I want you to grow as fine a girl as Phebe . ''
`` Phebe ! ''
and Rose looked so amazed that her uncle nearly went off again .
`` Yes , Phebe ; for she has what you need health .
If you dear little girls would only learn what real beauty is , and not pinch and starve and bleach yourselves out so , you 'd save an immense deal of time and money and pain .
A happy soul in a healthy body makes the best sort of beauty for man or woman .
Do you understand that , my dear ? ''
`` Yes , sir , '' answered Rose , much taken down by this comparison with the girl from the poor-house .
It nettled her sadly , and she showed that it did by saying quickly , `` I suppose you would like to have me sweep and scrub , and wear an old brown dress , and go round with my sleeves rolled up , as Phebe does ? ''
`` I should very much , if you could work as well as she does , and show as strong a pair of arms as she can .
I haven't seen a prettier picture for some time than she made of herself this morning , up to the elbows in suds , singing like a blackbird whilst she scrubbed on the back stoop . ''
`` Well , I do think you are the queerest man that ever lived ! ''
was all Rose could find to say after this display of bad taste .
`` I haven't begun to show you my oddities yet , so you must make up your mind to worse shocks than this , '' he said , with such a whimsical look that she was glad the sound of a bell prevented her showing more plainly what a blow her little vanities had already received .
`` You will find your box all open up in auntie's parlor , and there you can amuse her and yourself by rummaging to your heart's content ; I've got to be cruising round all the morning getting my room to rights , '' said Dr. Alec , as they rose from breakfast .
`` Can't I help you , uncle ? ''
asked Rose , quite burning to be useful .
`` No , thank you , I 'm going to borrow Phebe for a while , if Aunt Plenty can spare her . ''
`` Anybody anything , Alec .
You will want me , I know , so I'll give orders about dinner and be all ready to lend a hand '' ; and the old lady bustled away full of interest and good-will .
`` Uncle will find that I can do some things that Phebe can't , so now ! ''
thought Rose , with a toss of the head as she flew to Aunt Peace and the long-desired box .
Every little girl can easily imagine what an extra good time she had diving into a sea of treasures and fishing up one pretty thing after another , till the air was full of the mingled odours of musk and sandalwood , the room gay with bright colours , and Rose in a rapture of delight .
She began to forgive Dr. Alec for the oatmeal diet when she saw a lovely ivory workbox ; became resigned to the state of her belt when she found a pile of rainbow-coloured sashes ; and when she came to some distractingly pretty bottles of attar of rose , she felt that they almost atoned for the great sin of thinking Phebe the finer girl of the two .
Dr. Alec meanwhile had apparently taken Aunt Plenty at her word , and was turning the house upside down .
A general revolution was evidently going on in the green-room , for the dark damask curtains were seen bundling away in Phebe's arms ; the air-tight stove retiring to the cellar on Ben's shoulder ; and the great bedstead going up garret in a fragmentary state , escorted by three bearers .
Aunt Plenty was constantly on the trot among her store-rooms , camphor-chests , and linen-closets , looking as if the new order of things both amazed and amused her .
Half the peculiar performances of Dr. Alec can not be revealed ; but as Rose glanced up from her box now and then she caught glimpses of him striding by , bearing a bamboo chair , a pair of ancient andirons , a queer Japanese screen , a rug or two , and finally a large bathing-pan upon his head .
`` What a curious room it will be , '' she said , as she sat resting and refreshing herself with `` Lumps of Delight , '' all the way from Cairo .
`` I fancy you will like it , deary , '' answered Aunt Peace , looking up with a smile from some pretty trifle she was making with blue silk and white muslin .
Rose did not see the smile , for just at that moment her uncle paused at the door , and she sprang up to dance before him , saying , with a face full of childish happiness , `` Look at me !
look at me !
I 'm splendid I don't know myself .
I haven't put these things on right , I dare say , but I do like them so much ! ''
`` You look as gay as a parrot in your fez and cabaja , and it does my heart good to see the little black shadow turned into a rainbow , '' said Uncle Alec , surveying the bright figure before him with great approbation .
He did not say it , but he thought she made a much prettier picture than Phebe at the wash-tub , for she had stuck a purple fez on her blonde head , tied several brilliant scarfs about her waist , and put on a truly gorgeous scarlet jacket with a golden sun embroidered on the back , a silver moon on the front , and stars of all sizes on the sleeves .
A pair of Turkish slippers adorned her feet , and necklaces of amber , coral , and filigree hung about her neck , while one hand held a smelling-bottle , and the other the spicy box of oriental sweetmeats .
`` I feel like a girl in the ` Arabian Nights , ' and expect to find a magic carpet or a wonderful talisman somewhere .
Only I don't see how I ever can thank you for all these lovely things , '' she said , stopping her dance , as if suddenly oppressed with gratitude .
`` I'll tell you how by leaving off the black clothes , that never should have been kept so long on such a child , and wearing the gay ones I've brought .
It will do your spirits good , and cheer up this sober old house .
Won't it , auntie ? ''
`` I think you are right , Alec , and it is fortunate that we have not begun on her spring clothes yet , for Myra thought she ought not to wear anything brighter than violet , and she is too pale for that . ''
`` You just let me direct Miss Hemming how to make some of these things .
You will be surprised to see how much I know about piping hems and gathering arm-holes and shirring biases , '' began Dr. Alec , patting a pile of muslin , cloth and silk with a knowing air .
Aunt Peace and Rose laughed so that he could not display his knowledge any farther , till they stopped , when he said good-naturedly , `` That will go a great way toward filling out the belt , so laugh away , Morgiana , and I'll go back to my work , or I never shall be done . ''
`` I couldn't help it , ` shirred biases ' were so very funny ! ''
Rose said , as she turned to her box after the splendid laugh .
`` But really , auntie , '' she added soberly , `` I feel as if I ought not to have so many nice things .
I suppose it wouldn't do to give Phebe some of them ?
Uncle might not like it . ''
`` He would not mind ; but they are not suitable for Phebe .
Some of the dresses you are done with would be more useful , if they can be made over to fit her , '' answered Aunt Peace in the prudent , moderate tone which is so trying to our feelings when we indulge in little fits of charitable enthusiasm .
`` I 'd rather give her new ones , for I think she is a little bit proud and might not like old things .
If she was my sister it would do , because sisters don't mind , but she isn't , and that makes it bad , you see .
I know how I can manage beautifully ; I'll adopt her ! ''
and Rose looked quite radiant with this new idea .
`` I 'm afraid you could not do it legally till you are older , but you might see if she likes the plan , and at any rate you can be very kind to her , for in one sense we are all sisters , and should help one another . ''
The sweet old face looked at her so kindly that Rose was fired with a desire to settle the matter at once , and rushed away to the kitchen , just as she was .
Phebe was there , polishing up the antique andirons so busily that she started when a voice cried out : `` Smell that , taste this , and look at me ! ''
Phebe sniffed attar of rose , crunched the `` Lump of Delight '' tucked into her mouth , and stared with all her eyes at little Morgiana prancing about the room like a brilliant paroquet .
`` My stars , ain't you splendid ! ''
was all she could say , holding up two dusty hands .
`` I've got heaps of lovely things upstairs , and I'll show them all to you , and I 'd go halves , only auntie thinks they wouldn't be useful , so I shall give you something else ; and you won't mind , will you ?
because I want to adopt you as Arabella was in the story .
Won't that be nice ? ''
`` Why , Miss Rose , have you lost your wits ? ''
No wonder Phebe asked , for Rose talked very fast , and looked so odd in her new costume , and was so eager she could not stop to explain .
Seeing Phebe's bewilderment , she quieted down and said , with a pretty air of earnestness , `` It isn't fair that I should have so much and you so little , and I want to be as good to you as if you were my sister , for Aunt Peace says we are all sisters really .
I thought if I adopted you as much as I can now , it would be nicer .
Will you let me , please ? ''
To Rose's great surprise , Phebe sat down on the floor and hid her face in her apron for a minute without answering a word .
`` Oh , dear , now she's offended , and I don't know what to do , '' thought Rose , much discouraged by this reception of her offer .
`` Please , forgive me ; I didn't mean to hurt your feelings , and hope you won't think -- '' she faltered presently , feeling that she must undo the mischief , if possible .
But Phebe gave her another surprise , by dropping the apron and showing a face all smiles , in spite of tears in the eyes , as she put both arms round Rose and said , with a laugh and sob , `` I think you are the dearest girl in the world , and I'll let you do anything you like with me . ''
`` Then you do like the plan ?
You didn't cry because I seemed to be kind of patronising ?
I truly didn't mean to be , '' cried Rose , delighted .
`` I guess I do like it !
and cried because no one was ever so good to me before , and I couldn't help it .
As for patronising , you may walk on me if you want to , and I won't mind , '' said Phebe , in a burst of gratitude , for the words , `` we are sisters '' went straight to her lonely heart and nestled there .
`` Well , now , we can play I 'm a good sprite out of the box , or , what is better , a fairy godmother come down the chimney , and you are Cinderella , and must say what you want , '' said Rose , trying to put the question delicately .
Phebe understood that , for she had a good deal of natural refinement , though she did come from the poor-house .
`` I don't feel as if I wanted anything now , Miss Rose , but to find some way of thanking you for all you've done , '' she said , rubbing off a tear that went rolling down the bridge of her nose in the most unromantic way .
`` Why , I haven't done anything but given you a bit of candy !
Here , have some more , and eat 'em while you work , and think what I can do .
I must go and clear up , so good-bye , and don't forget I've adopted you . ''
`` You've given me sweeter things than candy , and I 'm not likely to forget it . ''
And carefully wiping off the brick-dust , Phebe pressed the little hand Rose offered warmly in both her hard ones , while the black eyes followed the departing visitor with a grateful look that made them very soft and bright .
Soon after dinner , and before she had got acquainted with half her new possessions , Dr. Alec proposed a drive , to carry round the first instalment of gifts to the aunts and cousins .
Rose was quite ready to go , being anxious to try a certain soft burnous from the box , which not only possessed a most engaging little hood , but had funny tassels bobbing in all directions .
The big carriage was full of parcels , and even Ben's seat was loaded with Indian war clubs , a Chinese kite of immense size , and a pair of polished ox-horns from Africa .
Uncle Alec , very blue as to his clothes , and very brown as to his face , sat bolt upright , surveying well known places with interest , while Rose , feeling unusually elegant and comfortable , leaned back folded in her soft mantle , and played she was an Eastern princess making a royal progress among her subjects .
At three of the places their calls were brief , for Aunt Myra's catarrh was unusually bad ; Aunt Clara had a room full of company ; and Aunt Jane showed such a tendency to discuss the population , productions , and politics of Europe , Asia and Africa , that even Dr. Alec was dismayed , and got away as soon as possible .
`` Now we will have a good time !
I do hope the boys will be at home , '' said Rose , with a sigh of relief , as they wound yet higher up the hill to Aunt Jessie's .
`` I left this for the last call , so that we might find the lads just in from school .
Yes , there is Jamie on the gate watching for us ; now you'll see the Clan gather ; they are always swarming about together . ''
The instant Jamie saw the approaching guests he gave a shrill whistle , which was answered by echoes from meadow , house and barn , as the cousins came running from all directions , shouting , `` Hooray for Uncle Alec ! ''
They went at the carriage like highwaymen , robbed it of every parcel , took the occupants prisoners , and marched them into the house with great exultation .
`` Little Mum !
little Mum !
here they are with lots of goodies !
Come down and see the fun right away !
Quick ! ''
bawled Will and Geordie amidst a general ripping off of papers and a reckless cutting of strings that soon turned the tidy room into a chaos .
Down came Aunt Jessie with her pretty cap half on , but such a beaming face below it that one rather thought the fly-away head-gear an improvement than otherwise .
She had hardly time to greet Rose and the doctor before the boys were about her , each clamouring for her to see his gift and rejoice over it with him , for `` little Mum '' went halves in everything .
The great horns skirmished about her as if to toss her to the ceiling ; the war clubs hurtled over her head as if to annihilate her ; an amazing medley from the four quarters of the globe filled her lap , and seven excited boys all talked to her at once .
But she liked it ; oh dear , yes !
and sat smiling , admiring , and explaining , quite untroubled by the din , which made Rose cover up her ears and Dr. Alec threaten instant flight if the riot was not quelled .
That threat produced a lull , and while the uncle received thanks in one corner , the aunt had some little confidences made to her in the other .
`` Well , dear , and how are things going with you now ?
Better , I hope , than they were a week ago . ''
`` Aunt Jessie , I think I 'm going to be very happy , now uncle has come .
He does the queerest things , but he is so good to me I can't help loving him '' ; and , nestling closer to little Mum , Rose told all that had happened , ending with a rapturous account of the splendid box .
`` I am very glad , dear .
But , Rose , I must warn you of one thing ; don't let uncle spoil you . ''
`` But I like to be spoilt , auntie . ''
`` I don't doubt it ; but if you turn out badly when the year is over he will be blamed , and his experiment prove a failure .
That would be a pity , wouldn't it ?
when he wants to do so much for you , and can do it if his kind heart does not get in the way of his good judgment . ''
`` I never thought of that , and I'll try not to be spoilt .
But how can I help it ? ''
asked Rose anxiously .
`` By not complaining of the wholesome things he wants you to do ; by giving him cheerful obedience as well as love ; and even making some small sacrifices for his sake . ''
`` I will , I truly will !
and when I get in a worry about things may I come to you ?
Uncle told me to , and I feel as if I shouldn't be afraid . ''
`` You may , darling ; this is the place where little troubles are best cured , and this is what mothers are for , I fancy '' ; and Aunt Jessie drew the curly head to her shoulder with a tender look that proved how well she knew what medicine the child most needed .
It was so sweet and comfortable that Rose sat still enjoying it till a little voice said , `` Mamma , don't you think Pokey would like some of my shells ?
Rose gave Phebe some of her nice things , and it was very good of her .
Can I ? ''
`` Who is Pokey ? ''
asked Rose , popping up her head , attracted by the odd name .
`` My dolly ; do you want to see her ? ''
asked Jamie , who had been much impressed by the tale of adoption he had overheard .
`` Yes ; I 'm fond of dollies , only don't tell the boys , or they will laugh at me . ''
`` They don't laugh at me , and they play with my dolly a great deal ; but she likes me best '' ; and Jamie ran away to produce his pet .
`` I brought my old doll , but I keep her hidden because I am too big to play with her , and yet I can't bear to throw her away , I 'm so fond of her , '' said Rose , continuing her confidences in a whisper .
`` You can come and play with Jamie's whenever you like , for we believe in dollies up here , '' began Aunt Jessie , smiling to herself as if something amused her .
Just then Jamie came back , and Rose understood the smile , for his dolly proved to be a pretty four-year-old little girl , who trotted in as fast as her fat legs would carry her , and making straight for the shells , scrambled up an armful , saying , with a laugh that showed her little white teeth , `` All for Dimmy and me , for Dimmy and me ! ''
`` That's my dolly ; isn't she a nice one ? ''
asked Jamie , proudly surveying his pet with his hands behind him and his short legs rather far apart a manly attitude copied from his brothers .
`` She is a dear dolly .
But why call her Pokey ? ''
asked Rose , charmed with the new plaything .
`` She is such an inquisitive little body she is always poking that mite of a nose into everything ; and as Paul Pry did not suit , the boys fell to calling her Pokey .
Not a pretty name , but very expressive . ''
It certainly was , for , having examined the shells , the busy tot laid hold of everything she could find , and continued her researches till Archie caught her sucking his carved ivory chessmen to see if they were not barley sugar .
Rice paper pictures were also discovered crumpled up in her tiny pocket , and she nearly smashed Will's ostrich egg by trying to sit upon it .
`` Here , Jim , take her away ; she's worse than the puppies , and we can't have her round , '' commanded the elder brother , picking her up and handing her over to the little fellow , who received her with open arms and the warning remark , `` You 'd better mind what you do , for I 'm going to ` dopt Pokey like Rose did Phebe , and then you'll have to be very good to her , you big fellows . '' ''
` Dopt away , baby , and I'll give you a cage to keep her in , or you won't have her long , for she is getting worse than a monkey '' ; and Archie went back to his mates , while Aunt Jessie , foreseeing a crisis , proposed that Jamie should take his dolly home , as she was borrowed , and it was time her visit ended .
`` My dolly is better than yours , isn't she ?
'cause she can walk and talk and sing and dance , and yours can't do anything , can she ? ''
asked Jamie with pride , as he regarded his Pokey , who just then had been moved to execute a funny little jig and warble the well-known couplet , '' ` Puss-tat , puss-tat , where you been ? ' '
I been Lunnin , to saw a Tween . '' '
After which superb display she retired , escorted by Jamie , both making a fearful din blowing on conch shells .
`` We must tear ourselves away , Rose , because I want to get you home before sunset .
Will you come for a drive , Jessie ? ''
said Dr. Alec , as the music died away in the distance .
`` No , thank you ; but I see the boys want a scamper , so , if you don't mind , they may escort you home , but not go in .
That is only allowed on holidays . ''
The words were hardly out of Aunt Jessie's mouth when Archie said , in a tone of command , `` Pass the word , lads .
Boot and saddle , and be quick about it . ''
`` All right ! ''
And in a moment not a vestige of boy remained but the litter on the floor .
The cavalcade went down the hill at a pace that made Rose cling to her uncle's arm , for the fat old horses got excited by the antics of the ponies careering all about them , and went as fast as they could pelt , with the gay dog-cart rattling in front , for Archie and Charlie scorned shelties since this magnificent equipage had been set up .
Ben enjoyed the fun , and the lads cut up capers till Rose declared that `` circus '' was the proper name for them after all .
When they reached the house they dismounted , and stood , three on each side the steps , in martial attitudes , while her ladyship was handed out with great elegance by Uncle Alec .
Then the Clan saluted , mounted at word of command , and with a wild whoop tore down the avenue in what they considered the true Arab style .
`` That was splendid , now it is safely ended , '' said Rose , skipping up the steps with her head over her shoulder to watch the dear tassels bob about .
`` I shall get you a pony as soon as you are a little stronger , '' said Dr. Alec , watching her with a smile .
`` Oh , I couldn't ride one of those horrid , frisky little beasts !
They roll their eyes and bounce about so , I should die of fright , '' cried Rose , clasping her hands tragically .
`` Are you a coward ? ''
`` About horses I am . ''
`` Never mind , then ; come and see my new room '' ; and he led the way upstairs without another word .
As Rose followed she remembered her promise to Aunt Jessie , and was sorry she had objected so decidedly .
She was a great deal more sorry five minutes later , and well she might be .
`` Now , take a good look , and tell me what you think of it , '' said Dr. Alec , opening the door and letting her enter before him , while Phebe was seen whisking down the backstairs with a dust-pan .
Rose walked to the middle of the room , stood still , and gazed about her with eyes that brightened as they looked , for all was changed .
This chamber had been built out over the library to suit some fancy , and had been unused for years , except at Christmas times , when the old house overflowed .
It had three windows one to the east , that overlooked the bay ; one to the south , where the horse-chestnuts waved their green fans ; and one to the west , towards the hill and the evening sky .
A ruddy sunset burned there now , filling the room with an enchanted glow ; the soft murmur of the sea was heard , and a robin chirped `` Good-night ! ''
among the budding trees .
Rose saw and heard these things first , and felt their beauty with a child's quick instinct ; then her eye took in the altered aspect of the room , once so shrouded , still and solitary , now so full of light and warmth and simple luxury .
India matting covered the floor , with a gay rug here and there ; the antique andirons shone on the wide hearth , where a cheery blaze dispelled the dampness of the long-closed room .
Bamboo lounges and chairs stood about , and quaint little tables in cosy corners ; one bearing a pretty basket , one a desk , and on a third lay several familiar-looking books .
In a recess stood a narrow white bed , with a lovely Madonna hanging over it .
The Japanese screen half-folded back showed a delicate toilet service of blue and white set forth on a marble slab , and near by was the great bath-pan , with Turkish towels and a sponge as big as Rose's head .
`` Uncle must love cold water like a duck , '' she thought , with a shiver .
Then her eye went on to the tall cabinet , where a half-open door revealed a tempting array of the drawers , shelves and `` cubby holes , '' which so delight the hearts of children .
`` What a grand place for my new things , '' she thought , wondering what her uncle kept in that cedar retreat .
`` Oh me , what a sweet toilet table ! ''
was her next mental exclamation , as she approached this inviting spot .
A round old-fashioned mirror hung over it , with a gilt eagle a-top , holding in his beak the knot of blue ribbon that tied up a curtain of muslin falling on either side of the table , where appeared little ivory-handled brushes , two slender silver candle-sticks , a porcelain match-box , several pretty trays for small matters , and , most imposing of all , a plump blue silk cushion , coquettishly trimmed with lace , and pink rose-buds at the corners .
That cushion rather astonished Rose ; in fact , the whole table did , and she was just thinking , with a sly smile , `` Uncle is a dandy , but I never should have guessed it , '' when he opened the door of a large closet , saying , with a careless wave of the hand , `` Men like plenty of room for their rattle-traps ; don't you think that ought to satisfy me ? ''
Rose peeped in and gave a start , though all she saw was what one usually finds in closets clothes and boots , boxes and bags .
Ah !
but you see these clothes were small black and white frocks ; the row of little boots that stood below had never been on Dr. Alec's feet ; the green bandbox had a gray veil straying out of it , and yes !
the bag hanging on the door was certainly her own piece-bag , with a hole in one corner .
She gave a quick look round the room and understood now why it had seemed too dainty for a man , why her Testament and Prayer Book were on the table by the bed , and what those rose-buds meant on the blue cushion .
It came upon her in one delicious burst that this little paradise was all for her , and , not knowing how else to express her gratitude , she caught Dr. Alec round the neck , saying impetuously , `` O uncle , you are too good to me !
I'll do anything you ask me ; ride wild horses and take freezing baths and eat bad-tasting messes , and let my clothes hang on me , to show how much I thank you for this dear , sweet , lovely room ! ''
`` You like it , then ?
But why do you think it is yours , my lass ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , as he sat down looking well pleased , and drew his excited little niece to his knee .
`` I don't think , I know it is for me ; I see it in your face , and I feel as if I didn't half deserve it .
Aunt Jessie said you would spoil me , and I must not let you .
I 'm afraid this looks like it , and perhaps oh me !
perhaps I ought not to have this beautiful room after all ! ''
and Rose tried to look as if she could be heroic enough to give it up if it was best .
`` I owe Mrs. Jessie one for that , '' said Dr. Alec , trying to frown , though in his secret soul he felt that she was quite right .
Then he smiled that cordial smile , which was like sunshine on his brown face , as he said , `` This is part of the cure , Rose , and I put you here that you might take my three great remedies in the best and easiest way .
Plenty of sun , fresh air , and cold water ; also cheerful surroundings , and some work ; for Phebe is to show you how to take care of this room , and be your little maid as well as friend and teacher .
Does that sound hard and disagreeable to you , dear ? ''
`` No , sir ; very , very pleasant , and I'll do my best to be a good patient .
But I really don't think anyone could be sick in this delightful room , '' she said , with a long sigh of happiness as her eye went from one pleasant object to another .
`` Then you like my sort of medicine better than Aunt Myra's , and don't want to throw it out of the window , hey ? ''
`` Come , little girl , I've got another dose for you .
I fancy you won't take it as well as you did the last , but you will like it better after a while , '' said Dr. Alec , about a week after the grand surprise .
Rose was sitting in her pretty room , where she would gladly have spent all her time if it had been allowed ; but she looked up with a smile , for she had ceased to fear her uncle's remedies , and was always ready to try a new one .
The last had been a set of light gardening tools , with which she had helped him put the flower-beds in order , learning all sorts of new and pleasant things about the plants as she worked , for , though she had studied botany at school , it seemed very dry stuff compared with Uncle Alec's lively lesson .
`` What is it now ? ''
she asked , shutting her work-box without a murmur .
`` Salt-water . ''
`` How must I take it ? ''
`` Put on the new suit Miss Hemming sent home yesterday , and come down to the beach ; then I'll show you . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' answered Rose obediently , adding to herself , with a shiver , as he went off : `` It is too early for bathing , so I know it is something to do with a dreadful boat . ''
Putting on the new suit of blue flannel , prettily trimmed with white , and the little sailor-hat with long streamers , diverted her mind from the approaching trial , till a shrill whistle reminded her that her uncle was waiting .
Away she ran through the garden , down the sandy path , out upon the strip of beach that belonged to the house , and here she found Dr. Alec busy with a slender red and white boat that lay rocking on the rising tide .
`` That is a dear little boat ; and ` Bonnie Belle ' is a pretty name , '' she said , trying not to show how nervous she felt .
`` It is for you ; so sit in the stern and learn to steer , till you are ready to learn to row . ''
`` Do all boats wiggle about in that way ? ''
she asked , lingering as if to tie her hat more firmly .
`` Oh , yes , pitch about like nutshells when the sea is a bit rough , '' answered her sailor uncle , never guessing her secret woe .
`` Is it rough to-day ? ''
`` Not very ; it looks a trifle squally to the eastward , but we are all right till the wind changes .
Come . ''
`` Can you swim , uncle ? ''
asked Rose , clutching at his arm as he took her hand .
`` Like a fish .
Now then . ''
`` Oh , please hold me very tight till I get there !
Why do you have the stern so far away ? ''
and , stifling several squeaks of alarm in her passage , Rose crept to the distant seat , and sat there holding on with both hands and looking as if she expected every wave to bring a sudden shipwreck .
Uncle Alec took no notice of her fear , but patiently instructed her in the art of steering , till she was so absorbed in remembering which was starboard and which larboard , that she forgot to say `` OW ! ''
every time a big wave slapped against the boat .
`` Now where shall we go ? ''
she asked , as the wind blew freshly in her face , and a few , long swift strokes sent them half across the little bay .
`` Suppose we go to China ? ''
`` Isn't that rather a long voyage ? ''
`` Not as I go .
Steer round the Point into the harbour , and I'll give you a glimpse of China in twenty minutes or so . ''
`` I should like that ! ''
and Rose sat wondering what he meant , while she enjoyed the new sights all about her .
Behind them the green Aunt-hill sloped gently upward to the grove at the top , and all along the seaward side stood familiar houses , stately , cosy , or picturesque .
As they rounded the Point , the great bay opened before them full of shipping , and the city lay beyond , its spires rising above the tall masts with their gay streamers .
`` Are we going there ? ''
she asked , for she had never seen this aspect of the rich and busy old city before .
`` Yes .
Uncle Mac has a ship just in from Hong Kong , and I thought you would like to go and see it . ''
`` Oh , I should .
I love dearly to go poking about in the warehouses with Uncle Mac ; everything is so curious and new to me ; and I 'm specially interested in China because you have been there . ''
`` I'll show you two genuine Chinamen who have just arrived .
You will like to welcome Whang Lo and Fun See , I 'm sure . ''
`` Don't ask me to speak to them , uncle ; I shall be sure to laugh at the odd names and the pig-tails and the slanting eyes .
Please let me just trot round after you ; I like that best . ''
`` Very well ; now steer toward the wharf where the big ship with the queer flag is .
That's the ` Rajah , ' and we will go aboard if we can . ''
In among the ships they went , by the wharves where the water was green and still , and queer barnacles grew on the slippery piles .
Odd smells saluted her nose , and odd sights met her eyes , but Rose liked it all , and played she was really landing in Hong Kong when they glided up to the steps in the shadow of the tall `` Rajah . ''
Boxes and bales were rising out of the hold and being carried into the warehouse by stout porters , who tugged and bawled and clattered about with small trucks , or worked cranes with iron claws that came down and clutched heavy weights , whisking them aloft to where wide doors like mouths swallowed them up .
Dr. Alec took her aboard the ship , and she had the satisfaction of poking her inquisitive little nose into every available corner , at the risk of being crushed , lost , or drowned .
`` Well , child , how would you like to take a voyage round the world with me in a jolly old craft like this ? ''
asked her uncle , as they rested a minute in the captain's cabin .
`` I should like to see the world , but not in such a small , untidy , smelly place as this .
We would go in a yacht all clean and comfortable ; Charlie says that is the proper way , '' answered Rose , surveying the close quarters with little favour .
`` You are not a true Campbell if you don't like the smell of tar and salt-water , nor Charlie either , with his luxurious yacht .
Now come ashore and chin-chin with the Celestials . ''
After a delightful progress through the great warehouse , peeping and picking as they went , they found Uncle Mac and the yellow gentlemen in his private room , where samples , gifts , curiosities , and newly arrived treasures of all sorts were piled up in pleasing pro-fusion and con-fusion .
As soon as possible Rose retired to a corner , with a porcelain god on one side , a green dragon on the other , and , what was still more embarrassing , Fun See sat on a tea-chest in front , and stared at her with his beady black eyes till she did not know where to look .
Mr. Whang Lo was an elderly gentleman in American costume , with his pig-tail neatly wound round his head .
He spoke English , and was talking busily with Uncle Mac in the most commonplace way so Rose considered him a failure .
But Fun See was delightfully Chinese from his junk-like shoes to the button on his pagoda hat ; for he had got himself up in style , and was a mass of silk jackets and slouchy trousers .
He was short and fat , and waddled comically ; his eyes were very `` slanting , '' as Rose said ; his queue was long , so were his nails ; his yellow face was plump and shiny , and he was altogether a highly satisfactory Chinaman .
Uncle Alec told her that Fun See had come out to be educated and could only speak a little pigeon English ; so she must be kind to the poor fellow , for he was only a lad , though he looked nearly as old as Mr. Whang Lo .
Rose said she would be kind ; but had not the least idea how to entertain the queer guest , who looked as if he had walked out of one of the rice-paper landscapes on the wall , and sat nodding at her so like a toy Mandarin that she could hardly keep sober .
In the midst of her polite perplexity , Uncle Mac saw the two young people gazing wistfully at one another , and seemed to enjoy the joke of this making acquaintance under difficulties .
Taking a box from his table , he gave it to Fun See , with an order that seemed to please him very much .
Descending from his perch , he fell to unpacking it with great neatness and despatch , while Rose watched him , wondering what was going to happen .
Presently , out from the wrappings came a teapot , which caused her to clasp her hands with delight , for it was made in the likeness of a plump little Chinaman .
His hat was the cover , his queue the handle , and his pipe the nose .
It stood upon feet in shoes turned up at the toes , and the smile on the fat , sleepy face was so like that on Fun's when he displayed the teapot , that Rose couldn't help laughing , which pleased him much .
Two pretty cups with covers , and a fine scarlet tray completed the set , and made one long to have a `` dish of tea , '' even in Chinese style , without cream or sugar .
When he had arranged them on a little table before her , Fun signified in pantomime that they were hers , from her uncle .
She returned her thanks in the same way , whereupon he returned to his tea-chest , and , having no other means of communication , they sat smiling and nodding at one another in an absurd sort of way till a new idea seemed to strike Fun .
Tumbling off his seat , he waddled away as fast as his petticoats permitted , leaving Rose hoping that he had not gone to get a roasted rat , a stewed puppy , or any other foreign mess which civility would oblige her to eat .
While she waited for her funny new friend , she improved her mind in a way that would have charmed Aunt Jane .
The gentlemen were talking over all sorts of things , and she listened attentively , storing up much of what she heard , for she had an excellent memory , and longed to distinguish herself by being able to produce some useful information when reproached with her ignorance .
She was just trying to impress upon her mind that Amoy was two hundred and eighty miles from Hong Kong , when Fun came scuffling back , bearing what she thought was a small sword , till he unfurled an immense fan , and presented it with a string of Chinese compliments , the meaning of which would have amused her even more than the sound , if she could have understood it .
She had never seen such an astonishing fan , and at once became absorbed in examining it .
Of course , there was no perspective whatever , which only gave it a peculiar charm to Rose , for in one place a lovely lady , with blue knitting-needles in her hair , sat directly upon the spire of a stately pagoda .
In another charming view a brook appeared to flow in at the front door of a stout gentleman's house , and out at his chimney .
In a third a zig-zag wall went up into the sky like a flash of lightning , and a bird with two tails was apparently brooding over a fisherman whose boat was just going aground upon the moon .
It was altogether a fascinating thing , and she would have sat wafting it to and fro all the afternoon , to Fun's great satisfaction , if Dr. Alec's attention had not suddenly been called to her by a breeze from the big fan that blew his hair into his eyes , and reminded him that they must go .
So the pretty china was repacked , Rose furled her fan , and with several parcels of choice teas for the old ladies stowed away in Dr. Alec's pockets , they took their leave , after Fun had saluted them with `` the three bendings and the nine knockings , '' as they salute the Emperor , or `` Son of Heaven , '' at home .
`` I feel as if I had really been to China , and I 'm sure I look so , '' said Rose , as they glided out of the shadow of the `` Rajah . ''
She certainly did , for Mr. Whang Lo had given her a Chinese umbrella ; Uncle Alec had got some lanterns to light up her balcony ; the great fan lay in her lap , and the tea-set reposed at her feet .
`` This is not a bad way to study geography , is it ? ''
asked her uncle , who had observed her attention to the talk .
`` It is a very pleasant way , and I really think I have learned more about China to-day than in all the lessons I had at school , though I used to rattle off the answers as fast as I could go .
No one explained anything to us , so all I remember is that tea and silk come from there , and the women have little bits of feet .
I saw Fun looking at mine , and he must have thought them perfectly immense , '' answered Rose , surveying her stout boots with sudden contempt .
`` We will have out the maps and the globe , and I'll show you some of my journeys , telling stories as we go .
That will be next best to doing it actually . ''
`` You are so fond of travelling , I should think it would be very dull for you here , uncle .
Do you know , Aunt Plenty says she is sure you will be off in a year or two . ''
`` Very likely . ''
`` Oh , me !
what shall I do then ? ''
sighed Rose , in a tone of despair that made Uncle Alec's face brighten with a look of genuine pleasure as he said significantly , `` Next time I go I shall take my little anchor with me .
How will that suit ? ''
`` Really , uncle ? ''
`` Really , niece . ''
Rose gave a little bounce of rapture which caused the boat to `` wiggle '' in a way that speedily quieted her down .
But she sat beaming joyfully and trying to think which of some hundred questions she would ask first , when Dr. Alec said , pointing to a boat that was coming up behind them in great style , `` How well those fellows row !
Look at them , and take notes for your own use by and by . ''
The `` Stormy Petrel '' was manned by half a dozen jaunty looking sailors , who made a fine display of blue shirts and shiny hats , with stars and anchors in every direction .
`` How beautifully they go , and they are only boys .
Why , I do believe they are our boys !
Yes , I see Charlie laughing over his shoulder .
Row , uncle , row !
Oh , please do , and not let them catch up with us ! ''
cried Rose , in such a state of excitement that the new umbrella nearly went overboard .
`` All right , here we go ! ''
and away they did go with a long steady sweep of the oars that carried the `` Bonnie Belle '' through the water with a rush .
The lads pulled their prettiest , but Dr. Alec would have reached the Point first , if Rose , in her flurry , had not retarded him by jerking the rudder ropes in a most unseamanlike way , and just as she got right again her hat blew off .
That put an end to the race , and while they were still fishing for the hat the other boat came alongside , with all the oars in the air , and the jolly young tars ready for a frolic .
`` Did you catch a crab , uncle ? ''
`` No , a blue-fish , '' he answered , as the dripping hat was landed on a seat to dry .
`` What have you been doing ? ''
`` Seeing Fun . ''
`` Good for you , Rose !
I know what you mean .
We are going to have him up to show us how to fly the big kite , for we can't get the hang of it .
Isn't he great fun , though ? ''
`` No , little Fun . ''
`` Come , stop joking , and show us what you've got . ''
`` You 'd better hoist that fan for a sail . ''
`` Lend Dandy your umbrella ; he hates to burn his pretty nose . ''
`` I say , uncle , are you going to have a Feast of Lanterns ? ''
`` No , I 'm going to have a feast of bread and butter , for it's tea-time .
If that black cloud doesn't lie , we shall have a gust before long , so you had better get home as soon as you can , or your mother will be anxious , Archie . ''
`` Ay , ay , skipper .
Good-night , Rose ; come out often , and we'll teach you all there is to know about rowing , '' was Charlie's modest invitation .
Then the boats parted company , and across the water from the `` Petrel's '' crew came a verse from one of the Nonsense songs in which the boys delighted .
`` Oh , Timballoo !
how happy we are , We live in a sieve and a crockery jar !
And all night long , in the starlight pale , We sail away , with a pea-green sail , And whistle and warble a moony song To the echoing sound of a coppery gong .
Far and few , far and few Are the lands where the Jumblies live ; Their heads are green , and their hands are blue , And they went to sea in a sieve . ''
`` Uncle , could you lend me a ninepence ?
I'll return it as soon as I get my pocket-money , '' said Rose , coming into the library in a great hurry that evening .
`` I think I could , and I won't charge any interest for it , so you need not be in any hurry to repay me .
Come back here and help me settle these books if you have nothing pleasanter to do , '' answered Dr. Alec , handing out the money with that readiness which is so delightful when we ask small loans .
`` I'll come in a minute ; I've been longing to fix my books , but didn't dare to touch them , because you always shake your head when I read . ''
`` I shall shake my head when you write , if you don't do it better than you did in making out this catalogue . ''
`` I know it's bad , but I was in a hurry when I did it , and I am in one now . ''
And away went Rose , glad to escape a lecture .
But she got it when she came back , for Uncle Alec was still knitting his brows over the list of books , and sternly demanded , pointing to a tipsy-looking title staggering down the page , `` Is that meant for ` Pulverized Bones , ' ma'am ? ''
`` No , sir ; it's ` Paradise Lost . ' ''
`` Well , I 'm glad to know it , for I began to think you were planning to study surgery or farming .
And what is this , if you please ?
` Babies ' Aprons ' is all I can make of it . ''
Rose looked hard at the scrawl , and presently announced , with an air of superior wisdom , `` Oh , that's ` Bacon's Essays . ' ''
`` Miss Power did not teach anything so old-fashioned as writing , I see .
Now look at this memorandum Aunt Plenty gave me , and see what a handsome plain hand that is .
She went to a dame-school and learnt a few useful things well ; that is better than a smattering of half a dozen so-called higher branches , I take the liberty of thinking . ''
`` Well , I 'm sure I was considered a bright girl at school , and learned everything I was taught .
Luly and me were the first in all our classes , and ` specially praised for our French and music and those sort of things , '' said Rose , rather offended at Uncle Alec's criticism .
`` I dare say ; but if your French grammar was no better than your English , I think the praise was not deserved , my dear . ''
`` Why , uncle , we did study English grammar , and I could parse beautifully .
Miss Power used to have us up to show off when people came .
I don't see but I talk as right as most girls . ''
`` I dare say you do , but we are all too careless about our English .
Now , think a minute , and tell me if these expressions are correct ` Luly and me , ' ` those sort of things , ' and ` as right as most girls . ' ''
Rose pulled her pet curl and put up her lip , but had to own that she was wrong , and said meekly , after a pause which threatened to be sulky , `` I suppose I should have said ` Luly and I , ' in that case , and ` that sort of things ' and ` rightly , ' though ` correctly ' would have been a better word , I guess . ''
`` Thank you ; and if you will kindly drop ' I guess , ' I shall like my little Yankee all the better .
Now , see here , Rosy , I don't pretend to set myself up for a model in anything , and you may come down on my grammar , manners or morals as often as you think I 'm wrong , and I'll thank you .
I've been knocking about the world for years , and have got careless , but I want my girl to be what I call well-educated , even if she studies nothing but the three ` Rs ' for a year to come .
Let us be thorough , no matter how slowly we go . ''
He spoke so earnestly and looked so sorry to have ruffled her that Rose went and sat on the arm of his chair , saying , with a pretty air of penitence , `` I 'm sorry I was cross , uncle , when I ought to thank you for taking so much interest in me .
I guess no , I think you are right about being thorough , for I used to understand a great deal better when papa taught me a few lessons than when Miss Power hurried me through so many .
I declare my head used to be such a jumble of French and German , history and arithmetic , grammar and music , I used to feel sometimes as if it would split .
I 'm sure I don't wonder it ached . ''
And she held on to it as if the mere memory of the `` jumble '' made it swim .
`` Yet that is considered an excellent school , I find , and I dare say it would be if the benighted lady did not think it necessary to cram her pupils like Thanks-giving turkeys , instead of feeding them in a natural and wholesome way .
It is the fault with most American schools , and the poor little heads will go on aching till we learn better . ''
This was one of Dr. Alec's hobbies , and Rose was afraid he was off for a gallop , but he reined himself in and gave her thoughts a new turn by saying suddenly , as he pulled out a fat pocket-book , `` Uncle Mac has put all your affairs into my hands now , and here is your month's pocket money .
You keep your own little accounts , I suppose ? ''
`` Thank you .
Yes , Uncle Mac gave me an account book when I went to school , and I used to put down my expenses , but I couldn't make them go very well , for figures are the one thing I am not at all clever about , '' said Rose , rummaging in her desk for a dilapidated little book , which she was ashamed to show when she found it .
`` Well , as figures are rather important things to most of us , and you may have a good many accounts to keep some day , wouldn't it be wise to begin at once and learn to manage your pennies before the pounds come to perplex you ? ''
`` I thought you would do all that fussy part and take care of the pounds , as you call them .
Need I worry about it ?
I do hate sums , so ! ''
`` I shall take care of things till you are of age , but I mean that you shall know how your property is managed , and do as much of it as you can by and by ; then you won't be dependent on the honesty of other people . ''
`` Gracious me !
as if I wouldn't trust you with millions of billions if I had them , '' cried Rose , scandalised at the mere suggestion .
`` Ah , but I might be tempted ; guardians are sometimes ; so you 'd better keep your eye on me , and in order to do that you must learn all about these affairs , '' answered Dr. Alec , as he made an entry in his own very neat account-book .
Rose peeped over his shoulder at it , and then turned to the arithmetical puzzle in her hand with a sigh of despair .
`` Uncle , when you add up your expenses do you ever find you have got more money than you had in the beginning ? ''
`` No ; I usually find that I have a good deal less than I had in the beginning .
Are you troubled in the peculiar way you mention ? ''
`` Yes ; it is very curious , but I never can make things come out square . ''
`` Perhaps I can help you , '' began Uncle Alec , in the most respectful tone .
`` I think you had better , for if I have got to keep accounts I may as well begin in the right way .
But please don't laugh !
I know I 'm very stupid , and my book is a disgrace , but I never could get it straight . ''
And with great trepidation , Rose gave up her funny little accounts .
It really was good in Dr. Alec not to laugh , and Rose felt deeply grateful when he said in a mildly suggestive tone , `` The dollars and cents seem to be rather mixed , perhaps if I just straightened them out a bit we should find things all right . ''
`` Please do , and then show me on a fresh leaf how to make mine look nice and ship-shape as yours do . ''
As Rose stood by him watching the ease with which he quickly brought order out of chaos , she privately resolved to hunt up her old arithmetic and perfect herself in the four first rules , with a good tug at fractions , before she read any more fairy tales .
`` Am I a rich girl , uncle ? ''
she asked suddenly , as he was copying a column of figures .
`` Rather a poor one , I should say , since you had to borrow a ninepence . ''
`` That was your fault , because you forgot my pocket-money .
But , really , shall I be rich by and by ? ''
`` I am afraid you will . ''
`` Why afraid , uncle ? ''
`` Too much money is a bad thing . ''
`` But I can give it away , you know ; that is always the pleasantest part of having it I think . ''
`` I 'm glad you feel so , for you can do much good with your fortune if you know how to use it well . ''
`` You shall teach me , and when I am a woman we will set up a school where nothing but the three R's shall be taught , and all the children live on oatmeal , and the girls have waists a yard round , '' said Rose , with a sudden saucy smile dimpling her cheeks .
`` You are an impertinent little baggage , to turn on me in that way right in the midst of my first attempt at teaching .
Never mind , I'll have an extra bitter dose for you next time , miss . ''
`` I knew you wanted to laugh , so I gave you a chance .
Now , I will be good , master , and do my lesson nicely . ''
So Dr. Alec had his laugh , and then Rose sat down and took a lesson in accounts which she never forgot .
`` Now come and read aloud to me ; my eyes are tired , and it is pleasant to sit here by the fire while the rain pours outside and Aunt Jane lectures upstairs , '' said Uncle Alec , when last month's accounts had been put in good order and a fresh page neatly begun .
Rose liked to read aloud , and gladly gave him the chapter in `` Nicholas Nickleby '' where the Miss Kenwigses take their French lesson .
She did her very best , feeling that she was being criticised , and hoping that she might not be found wanting in this as in other things .
`` Shall I go on , sir ? ''
she asked very meekly , when the chapter ended .
`` If you are not tired , dear .
It is a pleasure to hear you , for you read remarkably well , '' was the answer that filled her heart with pride and pleasure .
`` Do you really think so , uncle ?
I 'm so glad !
Papa taught me , and I read for hours to him , but I thought perhaps , he liked it because he was fond of me . ''
`` So am I ; but you really do read unusually well , and I 'm very glad of it , for it is a rare accomplishment , and one I value highly .
Come here in this cosy , low chair ; the light is better , and I can pull these curls if you go too fast .
I see you are going to be a great comfort as well as a great credit to your old uncle , Rosy . ''
And Dr. Alec drew her close beside him with such a fatherly look and tone that she felt it would be very easy to love and obey him , since he knew how to mix praise and blame so pleasantly together .
Another chapter was just finished , when the sound of a carriage warned them that Aunt Jane was about to depart .
Before they could go to meet her , however , she appeared in the doorway looking like an unusually tall mummy in her waterproof , with her glasses shining like cat's eyes from the depths of the hood .
`` Just as I thought !
petting that child to death and letting her sit up late reading trash .
I do hope you feel the weight of the responsibility you have taken upon yourself , Alec , '' she said , with a certain grim sort of satisfaction at seeing things go wrong .
`` I think I have a very realising sense of it , sister Jane , '' answered Dr. Alec , with a comical shrug of the shoulders and a glance at Rose's bright face .
`` It is sad to see a great girl wasting these precious hours so .
Now , my boys have studied all day , and Mac is still at his books , I've no doubt , while you have not had a lesson since you came , I suspect . ''
`` I've had five to-day , ma'am , '' was Rose's very unexpected answer .
`` I 'm glad to hear it ; and what were they , pray ? ''
Rose looked very demure as she replied , `` Navigation , geography , grammar , arithmetic , and keeping my temper . ''
`` Queer lessons , I fancy ; and what have you learned from this remarkable mixture , I should like to know ? ''
A naughty sparkle came into Rose's eyes as she answered , with a droll look at her uncle , `` I can't tell you all , ma'am , but I have collected some useful information about China , which you may like , especially the teas .
The best are Lapsing Souchong , Assam Pekoe , rare Ankoe , Flowery Pekoe , Howqua's mixture , Scented Caper , Padral tea , black Congou , and green Twankey .
Shanghai is on the Woosung River .
Hong Kong means ` Island of Sweet waters . '
Singapore is ` Lion's Town . '
` Chops ' are the boats they live in ; and they drink tea out of little saucers .
Principal productions are porcelain , tea , cinnamon , shawls , tin , tamarinds and opium .
They have beautiful temples and queer gods ; and in Canton is the Dwelling of the Holy Pigs , fourteen of them , very big , and all blind . ''
The effect of this remarkable burst was immense , especially the fact last mentioned .
It entirely took the wind out of Aunt Jane's sails ; it was so sudden , so varied and unexpected , that she had not a word to say .
The glasses remained fixed full upon Rose for a moment , and then , with a hasty `` Oh , indeed ! ''
the excellent lady bundled into her carriage and drove away , somewhat bewildered and very much disturbed .
She would have been more so if she had seen her reprehensible brother-in-law dancing a triumphal polka down the hall with Rose in honour of having silenced the enemy's battery for once .
`` Why do you keep smiling to yourself , Phebe ? ''
asked Rose , as they were working together one morning , for Dr. Alec considered house-work the best sort of gymnastics for girls ; so Rose took lessons of Phebe in sweeping , dusting and bed-making .
`` I was thinking about a nice little secret I know , and couldn't help smiling . ''
`` Shall I know it , sometime ? ''
`` Guess you will . ''
`` Shall I like it ? ''
`` Oh , won't you , though ! ''
`` Will it happen soon ? ''
`` Sometime this week . ''
`` I know what it is !
The boys are going to have fireworks on the fourth , and have got some surprise for me .
Haven't they ? ''
`` That's telling . ''
`` Well , I can wait ; only tell me one thing is uncle in it ? ''
`` Of course he is ; there's never any fun without him . ''
`` Then it's all right , and sure to be nice . ''
Rose went out on the balcony to shake the rugs , and , having given them a vigorous beating , hung them on the balustrade to air , while she took a look at her plants .
Several tall vases and jars stood there , and a month of June sun and rain had worked wonders with the seeds and slips she had planted .
Morning-glories and nasturtiums ran all over the bars , making haste to bloom .
Scarlet beans and honeysuckles were climbing up from below to meet their pretty neighbours , and the woodbine was hanging its green festoons wherever it could cling .
The waters of the bay were dancing in the sunshine , a fresh wind stirred the chestnut-trees with a pleasant sound , and the garden below was full of roses , butterflies and bees .
A great chirping and twittering went on among the birds , busy with their summer house-keeping , and , far away , the white-winged gulls were dipping and diving in the sea , where ships , like larger birds , went sailing to and fro .
`` Oh , Phebe , it's such a lovely day , I do wish your fine secret was going to happen right away !
I feel just like having a good time ; don't you ? ''
said Rose , waving her arms as if she was going to fly .
`` I often feel that way , but I have to wait for my good times , and don't stop working to wish for 'em .
There , now you can finish as soon as the dust settles ; I must go do my stairs , '' and Phebe trudged away with the broom , singing as she went .
Rose leaned where she was , and fell to thinking how many good times she had had lately , for the gardening had prospered finely , and she was learning to swim and row , and there were drives and walks , and quiet hours of reading and talk with Uncle Alec , and , best of all , the old pain and ennui seldom troubled her now .
She could work and play all day , sleep sweetly all night , and enjoy life with the zest of a healthy , happy child .
She was far from being as strong and hearty as Phebe , but she was getting on ; the once pale cheeks had colour in them now , the hands were growing plump and brown , and the belt was not much too loose .
No one talked to her about her health , and she forgot that she had `` no constitution . ''
She took no medicine but Dr. Alec's three great remedies , and they seemed to suit her excellently .
Aunt Plenty said it was the pills ; but , as no second batch had ever followed the first , I think the old lady was mistaken .
Rose looked worthy of her name as she stood smiling to herself over a happier secret than any Phebe had a secret which she did not know herself till she found out , some years later , the magic of good health . ''
` Look only , ' said the brownie , ` At the pretty gown of blue , At the kerchief pinned about her head , And at her little shoe , '' ' said a voice from below , as a great cabbage-rose came flying against her cheek .
`` What is the princess dreaming about up there in her hanging-garden ? ''
added Dr. Alec as she flung back a morning-glory .
`` I was wishing I could do something pleasant this fine day ; something very new and interesting , for the wind makes me feel frisky and gay . ''
`` Suppose we take a pull over to the Island ?
I intended to go this afternoon ; but if you feel more like it now , we can be off at once . ''
`` I do !
I do !
I'll come in fifteen minutes , uncle .
I must just scrabble my room to rights , for Phebe has got a great deal to do . ''
Rose caught up the rugs and vanished as she spoke , while Dr. Alec went in , saying to himself , with an indulgent smile , `` It may upset things a trifle , but half a child's pleasure consists in having their fun when they want it . ''
Never did duster flap more briskly than the one Rose used that day , and never was a room `` scrabbled '' to rights in such haste as hers .
Tables and chairs flew into their places as if alive ; curtains shook as if a gale was blowing ; china rattled and small articles tumbled about as if a young earthquake was playing with them .
The boating suit went on in a twinkling , and Rose was off with a hop and a skip , little dreaming how many hours it would be before she saw her pretty room again .
Uncle Alec was putting a large basket into the boat when she arrived , and before they were off Phebe came running down with a queer , knobby bundle done up in a water-proof .
`` We can't eat half that luncheon , and I know we shall not need so many wraps .
I wouldn't lumber the boat up so , '' said Rose , who still had secret scares when on the water .
`` Couldn't you make a smaller parcel , Phebe ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , eyeing the bundle suspiciously .
`` No , sir , not in such a hurry , '' and Phebe laughed as she gave a particularly large knob a good poke .
`` Well , it will do for ballast .
Don't forget the note to Mrs. Jessie , I beg of you . ''
`` No , sir .
I'll send it right off , '' and Phebe ran up the bank as if she had wings to her feet .
`` We'll take a look at the lighthouse first , for you have not been there yet , and it is worth seeing .
By the time we have done that it will be pretty warm , and we will have lunch under the trees on the Island . ''
Rose was ready for anything , and enjoyed her visit to the lighthouse on the Point very much , especially climbing up the narrow stairs and going inside the great lantern .
They made a long stay , for Dr. Alec seemed in no hurry to go , and kept looking through his spy-glass as if he expected to discover something remarkable on sea or land .
It was past twelve before they reached the Island , and Rose was ready for her lunch long before she got it .
`` Now this is lovely !
I do wish the boys were here .
Won't it be nice to have them with us all their vacation ?
Why , it begins to-day , doesn't it ?
Oh , I wish I 'd remembered it sooner , and perhaps they would have come with us , '' she said , as they lay luxuriously eating sandwiches under the old apple-tree .
`` So we might .
Next time we won't be in such a hurry .
I expect the lads will take our heads off when they find us out , '' answered Dr. Alec , placidly drinking cold tea .
`` Uncle , I smell a frying sort of a smell , '' Rose said , pausing suddenly as she was putting away the remains of the lunch half an hour later .
`` So do I ; it is fish , I think . ''
For a moment they both sat with their noses in the air , sniffing like hounds ; then Dr. Alec sprang up , saying with great decision , `` Now , this won't do !
No one is permitted on this island without asking leave .
I must see who dares to fry fish on my private property . ''
Taking the basket on one arm and the bundle on the other , he strode away towards the traitorous smell , looking as fierce as a lion , while Rose marched behind under her umbrella .
`` We are Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday going to see if the savages have come , '' she said presently , for her fancy was full of the dear old stories that all children love so well .
`` And there they are !
Two tents and two boats , as I live !
These rascals mean to enjoy themselves , that's evident . ''
`` There ought to be more boats and no tents .
I wonder where the prisoners are ? ''
`` There are traces of them , '' and Dr. Alec pointed to the heads and tails of fishes strewn on the grass .
`` And there are more , '' said Rose , laughing , as she pointed to a scarlet heap of what looked like lobsters .
`` The savages are probably eating their victims now ; don't you hear the knives rattle in that tent ? ''
`` We ought to creep up and peep ; Crusoe was cautious , you know , and Friday scared out of his wits , '' added Rose , still keeping up the joke .
`` But this Crusoe is going to pounce upon them , regardless of consequences .
If I am killed and eaten , you seize the basket and run for the boat ; there are provisions enough for your voyage home . ''
With that Uncle Alec slipped round to the front of the tent and , casting in the big bundle like a bomb-shell , roared out , in a voice of thunder , `` Pirates , surrender ! ''
A crash , a shout , a laugh , and out came the savages , brandishing knives and forks , chicken bones , and tin mugs , and all fell upon the intruder , pommelling him unmercifully as they cried , `` You came too soon !
We are not half ready !
You've spoilt it all !
Where is Rose ? ''
`` Here I am , '' answered a half-stifled voice , and Rose was discovered sitting on the pile of red flannel bathing clothes , which she had mistaken for lobsters , and where she had fallen in a fit of merriment when she discovered that the cannibals were her merry cousins .
`` You good-for-nothing boys !
You are always bursting out upon me in some ridiculous way , and I always get taken in because I 'm not used to such pranks .
Uncle is as bad as the rest , and it's great fun , '' she said , as the lads came round her , half scolding , half welcoming , and wholly enjoying the double surprise .
`` You were not to come till afternoon , and mamma was to be here to receive you .
Everything is in a mess now , except your tent ; we got that in order the first thing , and you can sit there and see us work , '' said Archie , doing the honours as usual .
`` Rose felt it in her bones , as Dolly says , that something was in the wind , and wanted to be off at once .
So I let her come , and should have kept her away an hour longer if your fish had not betrayed you , '' explained Uncle Alec , subsiding from a ferocious Crusoe into his good-natured self again .
`` As this seat is rather damp , I think I'll rise , '' said Rose , as the excitement lessened a little .
Several fishy hands helped her up , and Charlie said , as he scattered the scarlet garments over the grass with an oar , `` We had a jolly good swim before dinner , and I told the Brats to spread these to dry .
Hope you brought your things , Rose , for you belong to the Lobsters , you know , and we can have no end of fun teaching you to dive and float and tread water . ''
`` I didn't bring anything -- '' began Rose , but was interrupted by the Brats , otherwise Will and Geordie , who appeared bearing the big bundle , so much demoralised by its fall that a red flannel tunic trailed out at one end and a little blue dressing-gown at the other , while the knobs proved to be a toilet-case , rubbers , and a silver mug .
`` Oh , that sly Phebe !
This was the secret , and she bundled up those things after I went down to the boat , '' cried Rose , with sparkling eyes .
`` Guess something is smashed inside , for a bit of glass fell out , '' observed Will , as they deposited the bundle at her feet .
`` Catch a girl going anywhere without a looking-glass .
We haven't got one among the whole lot of us , '' added Mac , with masculine scorn .
`` Dandy has ; I caught him touching up his wig behind the trees after our swim , '' cut in Geordie , wagging a derisive finger at Steve , who promptly silenced him by a smart rap on the head with the drum-stick he had just polished off .
`` Come , come , you lazy lubbers , fall to work , or we shall not be ready for mamma .
Take Rose's things to her tent , and tell her all about it , Prince .
Mac and Steve , you cut away and bring up the rest of the straw ; and you small chaps , clear off the table , if you have stuffed all you can .
Please , uncle , I 'd like your advice about the boundary lines and the best place for the kitchen . ''
Everyone obeyed the chief , and Rose was escorted to her tent by Charlie , who devoted himself to her service .
She was charmed with her quarters , and still more so with the programme which he unfolded before her as they worked .
`` We always camp out somewhere in vacation , and this year we thought we 'd try the Island .
It is handy , and our fireworks will show off well from here . ''
`` Shall we stay over the Fourth ?
Three whole days !
Oh , me !
what a frolic it will be ! ''
`` Bless your heart , we often camp for a week , we big fellows ; but this year the small chaps wanted to come , so we let them .
We have great larks , as you'll see ; for we have a cave and play Captain Kidd , and have shipwrecks , and races , and all sorts of games .
Arch and I are rather past that kind of thing now , but we do it to please the children , '' added Charlie , with a sudden recollection of his sixteen years .
`` I had no idea boys had such good times .
Their plays never seemed a bit interesting before .
But I suppose that was because I never knew any boys very well , or perhaps you are unusually nice ones , '' observed Rose , with an artless air of appreciation that was very flattering .
`` We are a pretty clever set , I fancy ; but we have a good many advantages , you see .
There are a tribe of us , to begin with ; then our family has been here for ages , and we have plenty of ` spondulics , ' so we can rather lord it over the other fellows , and do as we like .
There , ma'am , you can hang your smashed glass on that nail and do up your back hair as fine as you please .
You can have a blue blanket or a red one , and a straw pillow or an air cushion for your head , whichever you like .
You can trim up to any extent , and be as free and easy as squaws in a wigwam , for this corner is set apart for you ladies and we never cross the line uncle is drawing until we ask leave .
Anything more I can do for you , cousin ? ''
`` No , thank you .
I think I'll leave the rest till auntie comes , and go and help you somewhere else , if I may . ''
`` Yes , indeed , come on and see to the kitchen .
Can you cook ? ''
asked Charlie , as he led the way to the rocky nook where Archie was putting up a sail-cloth awning .
`` I can make tea and toast bread . ''
`` Well , we'll shew you how to fry fish , and make chowder .
Now you just set these pots and pans round tastefully , and sort of tidy up a bit , for Aunt Jessie insists on doing some of the work , and I want it to be decent here . ''
By four o'clock the camp was in order , and the weary workers settled down on Lookout Rock to watch for Mrs. Jessie and Jamie , who was never far from mamma's apron string .
They looked like a flock of blue-birds , all being in sailor rig , with blue ribbon enough flying from the seven hats to have set up a milliner .
Very tuneful blue-birds they were , too , for all the lads sang , and the echo of their happy voices reached Mrs. Jessie long before she saw them .
The moment the boat hove in sight up went the Island flag , and the blue-jackets cheered lustily , as they did on every possible occasion , like true young Americans .
This welcome was answered by the flapping of a handkerchief and the shrill `` Rah !
Rah !
Rah ! ''
of the one small tar who stood in the stern waving his hat manfully , while a maternal hand clutched him firmly in the rear .
Cleopatra landing from her golden galley never received a heartier greeting than `` Little Mum '' as she was borne to her tent by the young folk , for love of whom she smilingly resigned herself to three days of discomfort ; while Jamie immediately attached himself to Rose , assuring her of his protection from the manifold perils which might assail them .
Taught by long experience that boys are always hungry , Aunt Jessie soon proposed supper , and proceeded to get it , enveloped in an immense apron , with an old hat of Archie's stuck atop of her cap .
Rose helped , and tried to be as handy as Phebe , though the peculiar style of table she had to set made it no easy task .
It was accomplished at last , and a very happy party lay about under the trees , eating and drinking out of anyone's plate and cup , and quite untroubled by the frequent appearance of ants and spiders in places which these interesting insects are not expected to adorn .
`` I never thought I should like to wash dishes , but I do , '' said Rose , as she sat in a boat after supper lazily rinsing plates in the sea , and rocking luxuriously as she wiped them .
`` Mum is mighty particular ; we just give 'em a scrub with sand , and dust 'em off with a bit of paper .
It's much the best way , I think , '' replied Geordie , who reposed in another boat alongside .
`` How Phebe would like this !
I wonder uncle did not have her come . ''
`` I believe he tried to , but Dolly was as cross as two sticks , and said she couldn't spare her .
I 'm sorry , for we all like the Phebe bird , and she 'd chirp like a good one out here , wouldn't she ? ''
`` She ought to have a holiday like the rest of us .
It's too bad to leave her out . ''
This thought came back to Rose several times that evening , for Phebe would have added much to the little concert they had in the moonlight , would have enjoyed the stories told , been quick at guessing the conundrums , and laughed with all her heart at the fun .
The merry going to bed would have been the best of all , for Rose wanted someone to cuddle under the blue blanket with her , there to whisper and giggle and tell secrets , as girls delight to do .
Long after the rest were asleep , Rose lay wide awake , excited by the novelty of all about her , and a thought that had come into her mind .
Far away she heard a city clock strike twelve ; a large star like a mild eye peeped in at the opening of the tent , and the soft plash of the waves seemed calling her to come out .
Aunt Jessie lay fast asleep , with Jamie rolled up like a kitten at her feet , and neither stirred as Rose in her wrapper crept out to see how the world looked at midnight .
She found it very lovely , and sat down on a cracker keg to enjoy it with a heart full of the innocent sentiment of her years .
Fortunately , Dr. Alec saw her before she had time to catch cold , for coming out to tie back the door-flap of his tent for more air , he beheld the small figure perched in the moonlight .
Having no fear of ghosts , he quietly approached , and , seeing that she was wide awake , said , with a hand on her shining hair , `` What is my girl doing here ? ''
`` Having a good time , '' answered Rose , not at all startled .
`` I wonder what she was thinking about with such a sober look . ''
`` The story you told of the brave sailor who gave up his place on the raft to the woman , and the last drop of water to the poor baby .
People who make sacrifices are very much loved and admired , aren't they ? ''
she asked , earnestly .
`` If the sacrifice is a true one .
But many of the bravest never are known , and get no praise .
That does not lessen their beauty , though perhaps it makes them harder , for we all like sympathy , '' and Dr. Alec sighed a patient sort of sigh .
`` I suppose you have made a great many ?
Would you mind telling me one of them ? ''
asked Rose , arrested by the sigh .
`` My last was to give up smoking , '' was the very unromantic answer to her pensive question .
`` Why did you ? ''
`` Bad example for the boys . ''
`` That was very good of you , uncle !
Was it hard ? ''
`` I 'm ashamed to say it was .
But as a wise old fellow once said , ` It is necessary to do right ; it is not necessary to be happy . ' ''
Rose pondered over the saying as if it pleased her , and then said , with a clear , bright look , `` A real sacrifice is giving up something you want or enjoy very much , isn't it ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Doing it one's own self because one loves another person very much and wants her to be happy ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` And doing it pleasantly , and being glad about it , and not minding the praise if it doesn't come ? ''
`` Yes , dear , that is the true spirit of self-sacrifice ; you seem to understand it , and I dare say you will have many chances in your life to try the real thing .
I hope they won't be very hard ones . ''
`` I think they will , '' began Rose , and there stopped short .
`` Well , make one now , and go to sleep , or my girl will be ill to-morrow , and then the aunts will say camping out was bad for her . ''
`` I'll go good night ! ''
and throwing him a kiss , the little ghost vanished , leaving Uncle Alec to pace the shore and think about some of the unsuspected sacrifices that had made him what he was .
There certainly were `` larks '' on Campbell's Island next day , as Charlie had foretold , and Rose took her part in them like one intent on enjoying every minute to the utmost .
There was a merry breakfast , a successful fishing expedition , and then the lobsters came out in full force , for even Aunt Jessie appeared in red flannel .
There was nothing Uncle Alec could not do in the water , and the boys tried their best to equal him in strength and skill , so there was a great diving and ducking , for every one was bent on distinguishing himself .
Rose swam out far beyond her depth , with uncle to float her back ; Aunt Jessie splashed placidly in the shallow pools , with Jamie paddling near by like a little whale beside its mother ; while the lads careered about , looking like a flock of distracted flamingoes , and acting like the famous dancing party in `` Alice's Adventures in Wonderland . ''
Nothing but chowder would have lured them from their gambols in the briny deep ; that time-honoured dish demanded the concentrated action of several mighty minds ; so the `` Water Babies '' came ashore and fell to cooking .
It is unnecessary to say that , when done , it was the most remarkable chowder ever cooked , and the quantity eaten would have amazed the world if the secret had been divulged .
After this exertion a siesta was considered the thing , and people lay about in tents or out as they pleased , the boys looking like warriors slumbering where they fell .
The elders had just settled to a comfortable nap when the youngsters rose , refreshed and ready for further exploits .
A hint sent them all off to the cave , and there were discovered bows and arrows , battle clubs , old swords , and various relics of an interesting nature .
Perched upon a commanding rock , with Jamie to `` splain '' things to her , Rose beheld a series of stirring scenes enacted with great vigour and historical accuracy by her gifted relatives .
Captain Cook was murdered by the natives of Owhyhee in the most thrilling manner .
Captain Kidd buried untold wealth in the chowder kettle at the dead of night , and shot both the trusting villains who shared the secret of the hiding place .
Sinbad came ashore there and had manifold adventures , and numberless wrecks bestrewed the sands .
Rose considered them by far the most exciting dramas she had ever witnessed ; and when the performance closed with a grand ballet of Feejee Islanders , whose barbaric yells alarmed the gulls , she had no words in which to express her gratification .
Another swim at sunset , another merry evening on the rocks watching the lighted steamers pass seaward and the pleasure-boats come into port , ended the second day of the camping out , and sent everyone to bed early that they might be ready for the festivities of the morrow .
`` Archie , didn't I hear uncle ask you to row home in the morning for fresh milk and things ? ''
`` Yes , why ? ''
`` Please , may I go too ?
I have something of great importance to arrange ; you know I was carried off in a hurry , '' Rose said in a confidential whisper as she was bidding her cousins good night .
`` I 'm willing , and I guess Charlie won't mind . ''
`` Thank you ; be sure you stand by me when I ask leave in the morning , and don't say anything till then , except to Charlie .
Promise , '' urged Rose , so eagerly , that Archie struck an attitude and cried dramatically , `` By yonder moon I swear ! ''
`` Hush !
it's all right , go along '' ; and Rose departed as if satisfied .
`` She's a queer little thing , isn't she , Prince ? ''
`` Rather a nice little thing , I think .
I 'm quite fond of her . ''
Rose's quick ears caught both remarks , and she retired to her tent , saying to herself with sleepy dignity , `` Little thing , indeed !
Those boys talk as if I was a baby .
They will treat me with more respect after to-morrow , I guess . ''
Archie did stand by her in the morning , and her request was readily granted , as the lads were coming directly back .
Off they went , and Rose waved her hand to the islanders with a somewhat pensive air , for an heroic purpose glowed within her , and the spirit of self-sacrifice was about to be illustrated in a new and touching manner .
While the boys got the milk Rose ran to Phebe , ordered her to leave her dishes , to put on her hat , and take a note back to Uncle Alec , which would explain this somewhat mysterious performance .
Phebe obeyed , and when she went to the boat Rose accompanied her , telling the boys she was not ready to go yet , but they could , some of them , come for her when she hung a white signal on her balcony .
`` But why not come now ?
What are you about , miss ?
Uncle won't like it , '' protested Charlie , in great amazement .
`` Just do as I tell you , little boy ; uncle will understand and explain .
Obey , as Phebe does , and ask no questions .
I can have secrets as well as other people '' ; and Rose walked off with an air of lofty independence that impressed her friends immensely .
`` It's some plot between uncle and herself , so we won't meddle .
All right , Phebe ?
Pull away , Prince '' ; and off they went to be received with much surprise by the islanders .
This was the note Phebe bore : `` Dear Uncle , I am going to take Phebe's place to-day , and let her have all the fun she can .
Please don't mind what she says , but keep her , and tell the boys to be very good to her for my sake .
Don't think it is easy to do this ; it is very hard to give up the best day of all , but I feel so selfish to have all the pleasure and Phebe none , that I wish to make this sacrifice .
Do let me , and don't laugh at it ; I truly do not wish to be praised , and I truly want to do it .
Love to all from , `` Rose . ''
`` Bless the little dear , what a generous heart she has !
Shall we go after her , Jessie , or let her have her way ? ''
said Dr. Alec , after the first mingled amusement and astonishment had subsided .
`` Let her alone , and don't spoil her little sacrifice .
She means it , I know , and the best way in which we can show our respect for her effort is to give Phebe a pleasant day .
I 'm sure she has earned it '' ; and Mrs. Jessie made a sign to the boys to suppress their disappointment and exert themselves to please Rose's guest .
Phebe was with difficulty kept from going straight home , and declared that she should not enjoy herself one bit without Miss Rose .
`` She won't hold out all day , and we shall see her paddling back before noon , I'll wager anything , '' said Charlie ; and the rest so strongly inclined to his opinion that they resigned themselves to the loss of the little queen of the revels , sure that it would be only a temporary one .
But hour after hour passed , and no signal appeared on the balcony , though Phebe watched it hopefully .
No passing boat brought the truant back , though more than one pair of eyes looked out for the bright hair under the round hat ; and sunset came , bringing no Rose but the lovely colour in the western sky .
`` I really did not think the child had it in her .
I fancied it was a bit of sentiment , but I see she was in earnest , and means that her sacrifice shall be a true one .
Dear little soul !
I'll make it up to her a thousand times over , and beg her pardon for thinking it might be done for effect , '' Dr. Alec said remorsefully , as he strained his eyes through the dusk , fancying he saw a small figure sitting in the garden as it had sat on the keg the night before , laying the generous little plot that had cost more than he could guess .
`` Well , she can't help seeing the fireworks , any way , unless she is goose enough to think she must hide in a dark closet and not look , '' said Archie , who was rather disgusted at Rose's seeming ingratitude .
`` She will see ours capitally , but miss the big ones on the hill , unless papa has forgotten all about them , '' added Steve , cutting short the harangue Mac had begun upon the festivals of the ancients .
`` I 'm sure the sight of her will be better than the finest fireworks that ever went off , '' said Phebe , meditating an elopement with one of the boats if she could get a chance .
`` Let things work ; if she resists a brilliant invitation we give her she will be a heroine , '' added Uncle Alec , secretly hoping that she would not .
Meanwhile Rose had spent a quiet , busy day helping Dolly , waiting on Aunt Peace , and steadily resisting Aunt Plenty's attempts to send her back to the happy island .
It had been hard in the morning to come in from the bright world outside , with flags flying , cannon booming , crackers popping , and everyone making ready for a holiday , and go to washing cups , while Dolly grumbled and the aunts lamented .
It was very hard to see the day go by , knowing how gay each hour must have been across the water , and how a word from her would take her where she longed to be with all her heart .
But it was hardest of all when evening came and Aunt Peace was asleep , Aunt Plenty seeing a gossip in the parlor , Dolly established in the porch to enjoy the show , and nothing left for the little maid to do but sit alone in her balcony and watch the gay rockets whizz up from island , hill , and city , while bands played and boats laden with happy people went to and fro in the fitful light .
Then it must be confessed that a tear or two dimmed the blue eyes , and once , when a very brilliant display illuminated the island for a moment , and she fancied she saw the tents , the curly head went down on the railing , and a wide-awake nasturtium heard a little whisper , `` I hope someone wishes I was there ! ''
The tears were all gone , however , and she was watching the hill and island answer each other with what Jamie called `` whizzers , whirligigs and busters , '' and smiling as she thought how hard the boys must be working to keep up such a steady fire , when Uncle Mac came walking in upon her , saying hurriedly , `` Come , child , put on your tippet , pelisse , or whatever you call it , and run off with me .
I came to get Phebe , but aunt says she is gone , so I want you .
I've got Fun down in the boat , and I want you to go with us and see my fireworks .
Got them up for you , and you mustn't miss them , or I shall be disappointed . ''
`` But , uncle , '' began Rose , feeling as if she ought to refuse even a glimpse of bliss , `` perhaps -- '' `` I know , my dear , I know ; aunt told me ; but no one needs you now so much as I do , and I insist on your coming , '' said Uncle Mac , who seemed in a great hurry to be off , yet was unusually kind .
So Rose went and found the little Chinaman with a funny lantern waiting to help her in and convulse her with laughter trying to express his emotions in pigeon English .
The city clocks were striking nine as they got out into the bay , and the island fireworks seemed to be over , for no rocket answered the last Roman candle that shone on the Aunt-hill .
`` Ours are done , I see , but they are going up all round the city , and how pretty they are , '' said Rose , folding her mantle about her , and surveying the scene with pensive interest .
`` Hope my fellows have not got into trouble up there , '' muttered Uncle Mac , adding with a satisfied chuckle , as a spark shone out , `` No ; there it goes !
Look , Rosy , and see how you like this one ; it was ordered especially in honour of your coming . ''
Rose looked with all her eyes , and saw the spark grow into the likeness of a golden vase , then green leaves came out , and then a crimson flower glowing on the darkness with a splendid lustre .
`` Is it a rose , uncle ? ''
she asked , clasping her hands with delight as she recognised the handsome flower .
`` Of course it is !
Look again , and guess what those are , '' answered Uncle Mac , chuckling and enjoying it all like a boy .
A wreath of what looked at first like purple brooms appeared below the vase , but Rose guessed what they were meant for , and stood straight up , holding by his shoulder , and crying excitedly , `` Thistles , uncle , Scotch thistles !
There are seven of them one for each boy !
Oh , what a joke ! ''
and she laughed so that she plumped into the bottom of the boat and stayed there till the brilliant spectacle was quite gone .
`` That was rather a neat thing , I flatter myself , '' said Uncle Mac , in high glee at the success of his illumination .
`` Now , shall I leave you on the Island or take you home again , my good little girl ? ''
he added , lifting her up with such a tone of approbation in his voice that Rose kissed him on the spot .
`` Home , please uncle ; and I thank you very very much for the beautiful firework you got up for me .
I 'm so glad I saw it ; and I know I shall dream about it , '' answered Rose steadily , though a wistful glance went toward the Island , now so near that she could smell powder and see shadowy figures flitting about .
Home they went ; and Rose fell asleep saying to herself , `` It was harder than I thought , but I 'm glad I did it , and I truly don't want any reward but Phebe's pleasure . ''
Rose's sacrifice was a failure in one respect , for , though the elders loved her the better for it , and showed that they did , the boys were not inspired with the sudden respect which she had hoped for .
In fact , her feelings were much hurt by overhearing Archie say that he couldn't see any sense in it ; and the Prince added another blow by pronouncing her `` the queerest chicken ever seen . ''
It is apt to be so , and it is hard to bear ; for , though we do not want trumpets blown , we do like to have our little virtues appreciated , and can not help feeling disappointed if they are not .
A time soon came , however , when Rose , quite unconsciously , won not only the respect of her cousins , but their gratitude and affection likewise .
Soon after the Island episode , Mac had a sunstroke , and was very ill for some time .
It was so sudden that everyone was startled , and for some days the boy's life was in danger .
He pulled through , however ; and then , just as the family were rejoicing , a new trouble appeared which cast a gloom over them all .
Poor Mac's eyes gave out ; and well they might , for he had abused them , and never being very strong , they suffered doubly now .
No one dared to tell him the dark predictions of the great oculist who came to look at them , and the boy tried to be patient , thinking that a few weeks of rest would repair the overwork of several years .
He was forbidden to look at a book , and as that was the one thing he most delighted in , it was a terrible affliction to the Worm .
Everyone was very ready to read to him , and at first the lads contended for this honour .
But as week after week went by , and Mac was still condemned to idleness and a darkened room , their zeal abated , and one after the other fell off .
It was hard for the active fellows , right in the midst of their vacation ; and nobody blamed them when they contented themselves with brief calls , running of errands , and warm expressions of sympathy .
The elders did their best , but Uncle Mac was a busy man , Aunt Jane's reading was of a funereal sort , impossible to listen to long , and the other aunties were all absorbed in their own cares , though they supplied the boy with every delicacy they could invent .
Uncle Alec was a host in himself , but he could not give all his time to the invalid ; and if it had not been for Rose , the afflicted Worm would have fared ill .
Her pleasant voice suited him , her patience was unfailing , her time of no apparent value , and her eager good-will was very comforting .
The womanly power of self-devotion was strong in the child , and she remained faithfully at her post when all the rest dropped away .
Hour after hour she sat in the dusky room , with one ray of light on her book , reading to the boy , who lay with shaded eyes silently enjoying the only pleasure that lightened the weary days .
Sometimes he was peevish and hard to please , sometimes he growled because his reader could not manage the dry books he wished to hear , and sometimes he was so despondent that her heart ached to see him .
Through all these trials Rose persevered , using all her little arts to please him .
When he fretted , she was patient ; when he growled , she ploughed bravely through the hard pages not dry to her in one sense , for quiet tears dropped on them now and then ; and when Mac fell into a despairing mood , she comforted him with every hopeful word she dared to offer .
He said little , but she knew he was grateful , for she suited him better than anyone else .
If she was late , he was impatient ; when she had to go , he seemed forlorn ; and when the tired head ached worst , she could always soothe him to sleep , crooning the old songs her father used to love .
`` I don't know what I should do without that child , '' Aunt Jane often said .
`` She's worth all those racketing fellows put together , '' Mac would add , fumbling about to discover if the little chair was ready for her coming .
That was the sort of reward Rose liked , the thanks that cheered her ; and whenever she grew very tired , one look at the green shade , the curly head so restless on the pillow , and the poor groping hands , touched her tender heart and put new spirit into the weary voice .
She did not know how much she was learning , both from the books she read and the daily sacrifices she made .
Stories and poetry were her delight , but Mac did not care for them ; and since his favourite Greeks and Romans were forbidden , he satisfied himself with travels , biographies , and the history of great inventions or discoveries .
Rose despised this taste at first , but soon got interested in Livingstone's adventures , Hobson's stirring life in India , and the brave trials and triumphs of Watt and Arkwright , Fulton , and `` Palissy , the Potter . ''
The true , strong books helped the dreamy girl ; her faithful service and sweet patience touched and won the boy ; and long afterward both learned to see how useful those seemingly hard and weary hours had been to them .
One bright morning , as Rose sat down to begin a fat volume entitled `` History of the French Revolution , '' expecting to come to great grief over the long names , Mac , who was lumbering about the room like a blind bear , stopped her by asking abruptly , `` What day of the month is it ? ''
`` The seventh of August , I believe . ''
`` More than half my vacation gone , and I've only had a week of it !
I call that hard , '' and he groaned dismally .
`` So it is ; but there is more to come , and you may be able to enjoy that . ''
`` May be able !
I will be able !
Does that old noodle think I 'm going to stay stived up here much longer ? ''
`` I guess he does , unless your eyes get on faster than they have yet . ''
`` Has he said anything more lately ? ''
`` I haven't seen him , you know .
Shall I begin ?
this looks rather nice . ''
`` Read away ; it's all one to me . ''
And Mac cast himself down upon the old lounge , where his heavy head felt easiest .
Rose began with great spirit , and kept on gallantly for a couple of chapters , getting over the unpronounceable names with unexpected success , she thought , for her listener did not correct her once , and lay so still she fancied he was deeply interested .
All of a sudden she was arrested in the middle of a fine paragraph by Mac , who sat bolt upright , brought both feet down with a thump , and said , in a rough , excited tone , `` Stop !
I don't hear a word , and you may as well save your breath to answer my question . ''
`` What is it ? ''
asked Rose , looking uneasy , for she had something on her mind , and feared that he suspected what it was .
His next words proved that she was right .
`` Now , look here , I want to know something , and you've got to tell me . ''
`` Please , don't -- '' began Rose , beseechingly .
`` You must , or I'll pull off this shade and stare at the sun as hard as ever I can stare .
Come now ! ''
and he half rose , as if ready to execute the threat .
`` I will !
oh , I will tell , if I know !
But don't be reckless and do anything so crazy as that , '' cried Rose , in great distress .
`` Very well ; then listen , and don't dodge , as everyone else does .
Didn't the doctor think my eyes worse the last time he came ?
Mother won't say , but you shall . ''
`` I believe he did , '' faltered Rose .
`` I thought so !
Did he say I should be able to go to school when it begins ? ''
`` No , Mac , '' very low .
`` Ah ! ''
That was all , but Rose saw her cousin set his lips together and take a long breath , as if she had hit him hard .
He bore the disappointment bravely , however , and asked quite steadily in a minute , `` How soon does he think I can study again ? ''
It was so hard to answer that !
Yet Rose knew she must , for Aunt Jane had declared she could not do it , and Uncle Mac had begged her to break the truth to the poor lad .
`` Not for a good many months . ''
`` How many ? ''
he asked with a pathetic sort of gruffness .
`` A year , perhaps . ''
`` A whole year !
Why , I expected to be ready for college by that time . ''
And , pushing up the shade , Mac stared at her with startled eyes , that soon blinked and fell before the one ray of light .
`` Plenty of time for that ; you must be patient now , and get them thoroughly well , or they will trouble you again when it will be harder to spare them , '' she said , with tears in her own eyes .
`` I won't do it !
I will study and get through somehow .
It's all humbug about taking care so long .
These doctors like to keep hold of a fellow if they can .
But I won't stand it I vow I won't ! ''
and he banged his fist down on the unoffending pillow as if he were pommelling the hard-hearted doctor .
`` Now , Mac , listen to me , '' Rose said very earnestly , though her voice shook a little and her heart ached .
`` You know you have hurt your eyes reading by fire-light and in the dusk , and sitting up late , and now you'll have to pay for it ; the doctor said so .
You must be careful , and do as he tells you , or you will be blind . ''
`` No ! ''
`` Yes , it is true , and he wanted us to tell you that nothing but entire rest would cure you .
I know it's dreadfully hard , but we'll all help you ; I'll read all day long , and lead you , and wait upon you , and try to make it easier . ''
She stopped there , for it was evident that he did not hear a sound ; the word `` blind '' seemed to have knocked him down , for he had buried his face in the pillow , and lay so still that Rose was frightened .
She sat motionless for many minutes , longing to comfort him , but not knowing how , and wishing Uncle Alec would come , for he had promised to tell Mac .
Presently , a sort of choking sound came out of the pillow , and went straight to her heart the most pathetic sob she ever heard , for , though it was the most natural means of relief , the poor fellow must not indulge in it because of the afflicted eyes .
The `` French Revolution '' tumbled out of her lap , and , running to the sofa , she knelt down by it , saying , with the motherly sort of tenderness girls feel for any sorrowing creature , `` Oh , my dear , you mustn't cry !
It is so bad for your poor eyes .
Take your head out of that hot pillow , and let me cool it .
I don't wonder you feel so , but please don't cry .
I'll cry for you ; it won't hurt me . ''
As she spoke she pulled away the cushion with gentle force , and saw the green shade all crushed and stained with the few hot tears that told how bitter the disappointment had been .
Mac felt her sympathy , but , being a boy , did not thank her for it ; only sat up with a jerk , saying , as he tried to rub away the tell-tale drops with the sleeve of his jacket , `` Don't bother ; weak eyes always water .
I 'm all right . ''
But Rose cried out , and caught his arm , `` Don't touch them with that rough woollen stuff !
Lie down and let me bathe them , there's a dear boy ; then there will be no harm done . ''
`` They do smart confoundedly .
I say , don't you tell the other fellows that I made a baby of myself , will you ? ''
he added , yielding with a sigh to the orders of his nurse , who had flown for the eye-wash and linen cambric handkerchief .
`` Of course I won't ; but anyone would be upset at the idea of being well troubled in this way .
I 'm sure you bear it splendidly , and you know it isn't half so bad when you get used to it .
Besides , it is only for a time , and you can do lots of pleasant things if you can't study .
You'll have to wear blue goggles , perhaps ; won't that be funny ? ''
And while she was pouring out all the comfortable words she could think of , Rose was softly bathing the eyes and dabbing the hot forehead with lavender-water , as her patient lay quiet with a look on his face that grieved her sadly .
`` Homer was blind , and so was Milton , and they did something to be remembered by , in spite of it , '' he said , as if to himself , in a solemn tone , for even the blue goggles did not bring a smile .
`` Papa had a picture of Milton and his daughters writing for him .
It was a very sweet picture , I thought , '' observed Rose in a serious voice , trying to meet the sufferer on his own ground .
`` Perhaps I could study if someone read and did the eye part .
Do you suppose I could , by and by ? ''
he asked , with a sudden ray of hope .
`` I dare say , if your head is strong enough .
This sunstroke , you know , is what upset you , and your brain needs rest , the doctor says . ''
`` I'll have a talk with the old fellow next time he comes , and find out just what I may do ; then I shall know where I am .
What a fool I was that day to be stewing my brains and letting the sun glare on my book till the letters danced before me !
I see 'em now when I shut my eyes ; black balls bobbing round , and stars and all sorts of queer things .
Wonder if all blind people do ? ''
`` Don't think about them ; I'll go on reading , shall I ?
We shall come to the exciting part soon , and then you'll forget all this , '' suggested Rose .
`` No , I never shall forget .
Hang the old ` Revolution ' !
I don't want to hear another word of it .
My head aches , and I 'm hot .
Oh , wouldn't I like to go for a pull in the ` Stormy Petrel ! '' '
and poor Mac tossed about as if he did not know what to do with himself .
`` Let me sing , and perhaps you'll drop off ; then the day will seem shorter , '' said Rose , taking up a fan and sitting down beside him .
`` Perhaps I shall ; I didn't sleep much last night , and when I did I dreamed like fun .
See here , you tell the people that I know , and it's all right , and I don't want them to talk about it or howl over me .
That's all ; now drone away , and I'll try to sleep .
Wish I could for a year , and wake up cured . ''
`` Oh , I wish , I wish you could ! ''
Rose said it so fervently that Mac was moved to grope for her apron and hold on to a corner of it , as if it was comfortable to feel her near him .
But all he said was , `` You are a good little soul , Rosy .
Give us ` The Birks ' ; that is a drowsy one that always sends me off . ''
Quite contented with this small return for all her sympathy , Rose waved her fan and sang , in a dreamy tone , the pretty Scotch air , the burden of which is , `` Bonny lassie , will ye gang , will ye gang To the Birks of Aberfeldie ? ''
Whether the lassie went or not I can not say , but the laddie was off to the land of Nod , in about ten minutes , quite worn out with hearing the bad tidings and the effort to bear them manfully .
Rose did tell `` the people '' what had passed , and no one `` howled '' over Mac , or said a word to trouble him .
He had his talk with the doctor , and got very little comfort out of it , for he found that `` just what he might do '' was nothing at all ; though the prospect of some study by and by , if all went well , gave him courage to bear the woes of the present .
Having made up his mind to this , he behaved so well that everyone was astonished , never having suspected so much manliness in the quiet Worm .
The boys were much impressed , both by the greatness of the affliction which hung over him and by his way of bearing it .
They were very good to him , but not always particularly wise in their attempts to cheer and amuse ; and Rose often found him much downcast after a visit of condolence from the Clan .
She still kept her place as head-nurse and chief-reader , though the boys did their best in an irregular sort of way .
They were rather taken aback sometimes at finding Rose's services preferred to their's , and privately confided to one another that `` Old Mac was getting fond of being molly-coddled . ''
But they could not help seeing how useful she was , and owning that she alone had remained faithful a fact which caused some of them much secret compunction now and then .
Rose felt that she ruled in that room , if nowhere else , for Aunt Jane left a great deal to her , finding that her experience with her invalid father fitted her for a nurse , and in a case like this , her youth was an advantage rather than a drawback .
Mac soon came to think that no one could take care of him so well as Rose , and Rose soon grew fond of her patient , though at first she had considered this cousin the least attractive of the seven .
He was not polite and sensible like Archie , nor gay and handsome like Prince Charlie , nor neat and obliging like Steve , nor amusing like the `` Brats , '' nor confiding and affectionate like little Jamie .
He was rough , absent-minded , careless , and awkward , rather priggish , and not at all agreeable to a dainty , beauty-loving girl like Rose .
But when his trouble came upon him , she discovered many good things in this cousin of hers , and learned not only to pity but to respect and love the poor Worm , who tried to be patient , brave , and cheerful , and found it a harder task than anyone guessed , except the little nurse , who saw him in his gloomiest moods .
She soon came to think that his friends did not appreciate him , and upon one occasion was moved to free her mind in a way that made a deep impression on the boys .
Vacation was almost over , and the time drawing near when Mac would be left outside the happy school-world which he so much enjoyed .
This made him rather low in his mind , and his cousins exerted themselves to cheer him up , especially one afternoon when a spasm of devotion seemed to seize them all .
Jamie trudged down the hill with a basket of blackberries which he had `` picked all his ownself , '' as his scratched fingers and stained lips plainly testified .
Will and Geordie brought their puppies to beguile the weary hours , and the three elder lads called to discuss baseball , cricket , and kindred subjects , eminently fitted to remind the invalid of his privations .
Rose had gone to drive with Uncle Alec , who declared she was getting as pale as a potato sprout , living so much in a dark room .
But her thoughts were with her boy all the while , and she ran up to him the moment she returned , to find things in a fine state of confusion .
With the best intentions in life , the lads had done more harm than good , and the spectacle that met Nurse Rose's eye was a trying one .
The puppies were yelping , the small boys romping , and the big boys all talking at once ; the curtains were up , the room close , berries scattered freely about , Mac's shade half off , his cheeks flushed , his temper ruffled , and his voice loudest of all as he disputed hotly with Steve about lending certain treasured books which he could no longer use .
Now Rose considered this her special kingdom , and came down upon the invaders with an energy which amazed them and quelled the riot at once .
They had never seen her roused before , and the effect was tremendous ; also comical , for she drove the whole flock of boys out of the room like an indignant little hen defending her brood .
They all went as meekly as sheep ; the small lads fled from the house precipitately , but the three elder ones only retired to the next room , and remained there hoping for a chance to explain and apologise , and so appease the irate young lady , who had suddenly turned the tables and clattered them about their ears .
As they waited , they observed her proceedings through the half-open door , and commented upon them briefly but expressively , feeling quite bowed down with remorse at the harm they had innocently done .
`` She's put the room to rights in a jiffey .
What jacks we were to let those dogs in and kick up such a row , '' observed Steve , after a prolonged peep .
`` The poor old Worm turns as if she was treading on him instead of cuddling him like a pussy cat .
Isn't he cross , though ? ''
added Charlie , as Mac was heard growling about his `` confounded head . ''
`` She will manage him ; but it's mean in us to rumple him up and then leave her to smooth him down .
I 'd go and help , but I don't know how , '' said Archie , looking much depressed , for he was a conscientious fellow , and blamed himself for his want of thought .
`` No , more do I. Odd , isn't it , what a knack women have for taking care of sick folks ? ''
and Charlie fell a-musing over this undeniable fact .
`` She has been ever so good to Mac , '' began Steve , in a self-reproachful tone .
`` Better than his own brother , hey ? ''
cut in Archie , finding relief for his own regret in the delinquencies of another .
`` Well , you needn't preach ; you didn't any of you do any more , and you might have , for Mac likes you better than he does me .
I always fret him , he says , and it isn't my fault if I am a quiddle , '' protested Steve , in self-defence .
`` We have all been selfish and neglected him , so we won't fight about it , but try and do better , '' said Archie , generously taking more than his share of blame , for he had been less inattentive than either of the others .
`` Rose has stood by him like a good one , and it's no wonder he likes to have her round best .
I should myself if I was down on my luck as he is , '' put in Charlie , feeling that he really had not done `` the little thing '' justice .
`` I'll tell you what it is , boys we haven't been half good enough to Rose , and we've got to make it up to her somehow , '' said Archie , who had a very manly sense of honour about paying his debts , even to a girl .
`` I 'm awfully sorry I made fun of her doll when Jamie lugged it out ; and I called her ` baby bunting ' when she cried over the dead kitten .
Girls are such geese sometimes , I can't help it , '' said Steve , confessing his transgressions handsomely , and feeling quite ready to atone for them if he only knew how .
`` I'll go down on my knees and beg her pardon for treating her as if she was a child .
Don't it make her mad , though ?
Come to think of it , she's only two years or so younger than I am .
But she is so small and pretty , she always seems like a dolly to me , '' and the Prince looked down from his lofty height of five feet five as if Rose was indeed a pygmy beside him .
`` That dolly has got a real good little heart , and a bright mind of her own , you 'd better believe .
Mac says she understands some things quicker than he can , and mother thinks she is an uncommonly nice girl , though she don't know all creation .
You needn't put on airs , Charlie , though you are a tall one , for Rose likes Archie better than you ; she said she did because he treated her respectfully . ''
`` Steve looks as fierce as a game-cock ; but don't you get excited , my son , for it won't do a bit of good .
Of course , everybody likes the Chief best ; they ought to , and I'll punch their heads if they don't .
So calm yourself , Dandy , and mend your own manners before you come down on other people's . ''
Thus the Prince with great dignity and perfect good nature , while Archie looked modestly gratified with the flattering opinions of his kinsfolk , and Steve subsided , feeling he had done his duty as a cousin and a brother .
A pause ensued , during which Aunt Jane appeared in the other room , accompanied by a tea-tray sumptuously spread , and prepared to feed her big nestling , as that was a task she allowed no one to share with her .
`` If you have a minute to spare before you go , child , I wish you 'd just make Mac a fresh shade ; this has got a berry stain on it , and he must be tidy , for he is to go out to-morrow if it is a cloudy day , '' said Mrs. Jane , spreading toast in a stately manner , while Mac slopped his tea about without receiving a word of reproof .
`` Yes , aunt , '' answered Rose , so meekly that the boys could hardly believe it could be the same voice which had issued the stern command , `` Out of this room , every one of you ! ''
not very long ago .
They had not time to retire , without unseemly haste , before she walked into the parlour and sat down at the work-table without a word .
It was funny to see the look the three tall lads cast at the little person sedately threading a needle with green silk .
They all wanted to say something expressive of repentance , but no one knew how to begin , and it was evident , from the prim expression of Rose's face , that she intended to stand upon her dignity till they had properly abased themselves .
The pause was becoming very awkward , when Charlie , who possessed all the persuasive arts of a born scapegrace , went slowly down upon his knees before her , beat his breast , and said , in a heart-broken tone , `` Please forgive me this time , and I'll never do so any more . ''
It was very hard to keep sober , but Rose managed it and answered gravely , `` It is Mac's pardon you should ask , not mine , for you haven't hurt me , and I shouldn't wonder if you had him a great deal , with all that light and racket , and talk about things that only worry him . ''
`` Do you really think we've hurt him , cousin ? ''
asked Archie , with a troubled look , while Charlie settled down in a remorseful heap among the table legs .
`` Yes , I do , for he has got a raging headache , and his eyes are as red as as this emery bag , '' answered Rose , solemnly plunging her needle into a fat flannel strawberry .
Steve tore his hair , metaphorically speaking , for he clutched his cherished top-knot , and wildly dishevelled it , as if that was the heaviest penance he could inflict upon himself at such short notice .
Charlie laid himself out flat , melodramatically begging someone to take him away and hang him ; but Archie , who felt worst of all , said nothing except to vow within himself that he would read to Mac till his own eyes were as red as a dozen emery bags combined .
Seeing the wholesome effects of her treatment upon these culprits , Rose felt that she might relent and allow them a gleam of hope .
She found it impossible to help trampling upon the prostrate Prince a little , in words at least , for he had hurt her feelings oftener than he knew ; so she gave him a thimble-pie on the top of his head , and said , with an air of an infinitely superior being , `` Don't be silly , but get up , and I'll tell you something much better to do than sprawling on the floor and getting all over lint . ''
Charlie obediently sat himself upon a hassock at her feet ; the other sinners drew near to catch the words of wisdom about to fall from her lips , and Rose , softened by this gratifying humility , addressed them in her most maternal tone .
`` Now , boys , if you really want to be good to Mac , you can do it in this way .
Don't keep talking about things he can't do , or go and tell what fun you have had batting your ridiculous balls about .
Get some nice book and read quietly ; cheer him up about school , and offer to help him study by and by ; you can do that better than I , because I 'm only a girl , and don't learn Greek and Latin and all sorts of headachy stuff . ''
`` Yes , but you can do heaps of things better than we can ; you've proved that , '' said Archie , with an approving look that delighted Rose , though she could not resist giving Charlie one more rebuke , by saying , with a little bridling of the head , and a curl of the lip that wanted to smile instead , `` I 'm glad you think so , though I am a ` queer chicken . '' '
This scathing remark caused the Prince to hide his face for shame , and Steve to erect his head in the proud consciousness that this shot was not meant for him .
Archie laughed , and Rose , seeing a merry blue eye winking at her from behind two brown hands , gave Charlie's ear a friendly tweak , and extended the olive-branch of peace .
`` Now we'll all be good , and plan nice things for poor Mac , '' she said , smiling so graciously that the boys felt as if the sun had suddenly burst out from behind a heavy cloud and was shining with great brilliancy .
The storm had cleared the air , and quite a heavenly calm succeeded , during which plans of a most varied and surprising sort were laid , for everyone burned to make noble sacrifices upon the shrine of `` poor Mac , '' and Rose was the guiding star to whom the others looked with most gratifying submission .
Of course , this elevated state of things could not endure long , but it was very nice while it lasted , and left an excellent effect upon the minds of all when the first ardour had subsided .
`` There , that's ready for to-morrow , and I do hope it will be cloudy , '' said Rose , as she finished off the new shade , the progress of which the boys had watched with interest .
`` I 'd bespoken an extra sunny day , but I'll tell the clerk of the weather to change it .
He's an obliging fellow , and he'll attend to it , so make yourself easy , '' said Charlie , who had become quite perky again .
`` It is very easy for you to joke , but how would you like to wear a blinder like that for weeks and weeks , sir ? ''
and Rose quenched his rising spirits by slipping the shade over his eyes , as he still sat on the cushion at her feet .
`` It's horrid !
Take it off , take it off !
I don't wonder the poor old boy has the blues with a thing like that on '' ; and Charlie sat looking at what seemed to him an instrument of torture , with such a sober face that Rose took it gently away , and went in to bid Mac good-night .
`` I shall go home with her , for it is getting darkish , and she is rather timid , '' said Archie , forgetting that he had often laughed at this very timidity .
`` I think I might , for she's taking care of my brother , '' put in Steve , asserting his rights .
`` Let's all go , that will please her '' ; proposed Charlie , with a burst of gallantry which electrified his mates .
`` We will ! ''
they said with one voice , and they did , to Rose's great surprise and secret contentment ; though Archie had all the care of her , for the other two were leaping fences , running races , and having wrestling matches all the way down .
They composed themselves on reaching the door , however ; shook hands cordially all round , made their best bows , and retired with great elegance and dignity , leaving Rose to say to herself , with girlish satisfaction , as she went in , `` Now , that is the way I like to be treated . ''
Vacation was over , the boys went back to school , and poor Mac was left lamenting .
He was out of the darkened room now , and promoted to blue goggles , through which he took a gloomy view of life , as might have been expected ; for there was nothing he could do but wander about , and try to amuse himself without using his eyes .
Anyone who has ever been condemned to that sort of idleness knows how irksome it is , and can understand the state of mind which caused Mac to say to Rose in a desperate tone one day , `` Look here , if you don't invent some new employment or amusement for me , I shall knock myself on the head as sure as you live . ''
Rose flew to Uncle Alec for advice , and he ordered both patient and nurse to the mountains for a month , with Aunt Jessie and Jamie as escort .
Pokey and her mother joined the party , and one bright September morning six very happy-looking people were aboard the express train for Portland two smiling mammas , laden with luncheon baskets and wraps ; a pretty young girl with a bag of books on her arm ; a tall thin lad with his hat over his eyes ; and two small children , who sat with their short legs straight out before them , and their chubby faces beaming with the first speechless delight of `` truly travelling . ''
An especially splendid sunset seemed to have been prepared to welcome them when , after a long day's journey , they drove into a wide , green door-yard , where a white colt , a red cow , two cats , four kittens , many hens , and a dozen people , old and young , were gaily disporting themselves .
Everyone nodded and smiled in the friendliest manner , and a lively old lady kissed the new-comers all round , as she said heartily , `` Well , now , I 'm proper glad to see you !
Come right in and rest , and we'll have tea in less than no time , for you must be tired .
Lizzie , you show the folks upstairs ; Kitty , you fly round and help father in with the trunks ; and Jenny and I will have the table all ready by the time you come down .
Bless the dears , they want to go see the pussies , and so they shall ! ''
The three pretty daughters did `` fly round , '' and everyone felt at home at once , all were so hospitable and kind .
Aunt Jessie had raptures over the home-made carpets , quilts and quaint furniture ; Rose could not keep away from the windows , for each framed a lovely picture ; and the little folks made friends at once with the other children , who filled their arms with chickens and kittens , and did the honours handsomely .
The toot of a horn called all to supper , and a goodly party , including six children besides the Camp-bells , assembled in the long dining-room , armed with mountain appetites and the gayest spirits .
It was impossible for anyone to be shy or sober , for such gales of merriment arose they blew the starch out of the stiffest , and made the saddest jolly .
Mother Atkinson , as all called their hostess , was the merriest there , and the busiest ; for she kept flying up to wait on the children , to bring out some new dish , or to banish the live stock , who were of such a social turn that the colt came into the entry and demanded sugar ; the cats sat about in people's laps , winking suggestively at the food ; and speckled hens cleared the kitchen floor of crumbs , as they joined in the chat with a cheerful clucking .
Everybody turned out after tea to watch the sunset till all the lovely red was gone , and mosquitoes wound their shrill horns to sound the retreat .
The music of an organ surprised the new-comers , and in the parlor they found Father Atkinson playing sweetly on the little instrument made by himself .
All the children gathered about him , and , led by the tuneful sisters , sang prettily till Pokey fell asleep behind the door , and Jamie gaped audibly right in the middle of his favourite , `` Coo , '' said the little doves : `` Coo , '' said she , `` All in the top of the old pine-tree . ''
The older travellers , being tired , went to `` bye low '' at the same time , and slept like tops in home-spun sheets , on husk mattresses made by Mother Atkinson , who seemed to have put some soothing powder among them , so deep and sweet was the slumber that came .
Next day began the wholesome out-of-door life , which works such wonders with tired minds and feeble bodies .
The weather was perfect , and the mountain air made the children as frisky as young lambs ; while the elders went about smiling at one another , and saying , `` Isn't it splendid ? ''
Even Mac , the `` slow coach , '' was seen to leap over a fence as if he really could not help it ; and when Rose ran after him with his broad-brimmed hat , he made the spirited proposal to go into the woods and hunt for a catamount .
Jamie and Pokey were at once enrolled in the Cosey Corner Light Infantry a truly superb company , composed entirely of officers , all wearing cocked hats , carrying flags , waving swords , or beating drums .
It was a spectacle to stir the dullest soul when this gallant band marched out of the yard in full regimentals , with Captain Dove a solemn , big-headed boy of eleven issuing his orders with the gravity of a general , and his Falstaffian regiment obeying them with more docility than skill .
The little Snow children did very well , and Lieutenant Jack Dove was fine to see ; so was Drummer Frank , the errand-boy of the house , as he rub-a-dub-dubbed with all his heart and drumsticks .
Jamie had `` trained '' before , and was made a colonel at once ; but Pokey was the best of all , and called forth a spontaneous burst of applause from the spectators as she brought up the rear , her cocked hat all over one eye , her flag trailing over her shoulder , and her wooden sword straight up in the air ; her face beaming and every curl bobbing with delight as her fat legs tottered in the vain attempt to keep step manfully .
Mac and Rose were picking blackberries in the bushes beside the road when the soldiers passed without seeing them , and they witnessed a sight that was both pretty and comical .
A little farther on was one of the family burial spots so common in those parts , and just this side of it Captain Fred Dove ordered his company to halt , explaining his reason for so doing in the following words , `` That's a graveyard , and it's proper to muffle the drums and lower the flags as we go by , and we 'd better take off our hats , too ; it's more respectable , I think . ''
`` Isn't that cunning of the dears ? ''
whispered Rose , as the little troop marched slowly by to the muffled roll of the drums , every flag and sword held low , all the little heads uncovered , and the childish faces very sober as the leafy shadows flickered over them .
`` Let's follow and see what they are after , '' proposed Mac , who found sitting on the wall and being fed with blackberries luxurious but tiresome .
So they followed and heard the music grow lively , saw the banners wave in the breeze again when the graveyard was passed , and watched the company file into the dilapidated old church that stood at the corner of three woodland roads .
Presently the sound of singing made the outsiders quicken their steps , and , stealing up , they peeped in at one of the broken windows .
Captain Dove was up in the old wooden pulpit , gazing solemnly down upon his company , who , having stacked their arms in the porch , now sat in the bare pews singing a Sunday-school hymn with great vigour and relish .
`` Let us pray , '' said Captain Dove , with as much reverence as an army chaplain ; and , folding his hands , he repeated a prayer which he thought all would know an excellent little prayer , but not exactly appropriate to the morning , for it was , `` Now I lay me down to sleep . ''
Everyone joined in saying it , and it was a pretty sight to see the little creatures bowing their curly heads and lisping out the words they knew so well .
Tears came into Rose's eyes as she looked ; Mac took his hat off involuntarily , and then clapped it on again as if ashamed of showing any feeling .
`` Now I shall preach you a short sermon , and my text is , ` Little children , love one another . '
I asked mamma to give me one , and she thought that would be good ; so you all sit still and I'll preach it .
You mustn't whisper , Marion , but hear me .
It means that we should be good to each other , and play fair , and not quarrel as we did this very day about the wagon .
Jack can't always drive , and needn't be mad because I like to go with Frank .
Annette ought to be horse sometimes and not always driver ; and Willie may as well make up his mind to let Marion build her house by his , for she will do it , and he needn't fuss about it .
Jamie seems to be a good boy , but I shall preach to him if he isn't .
No , Pokey , people don't kiss in church or put their hats on .
Now you must all remember what I tell you , because I am the captain , and you should mind me . ''
Here Lieutenant Jack spoke right out in meeting with the rebellious remark , `` Don't care if you are ; you 'd better mind yourself , and tell how you took away my strap , and kept the biggest doughnut , and didn't draw fair when we had the truck . ''
`` Yes , and you slapped Frank ; I saw you ! ''
bawled Willie Snow , bobbing up in his pew .
`` And you took my book away and hid it 'cause I wouldn't go and swing when you wanted me to , '' added Annette , the oldest of the Snow trio .
`` I shan't build my house by Willie's if he don't want me to , so now ! ''
put in little Marion , joining the mutiny .
`` I will tiss Dimmy !
and I tored up my hat ` tause a pin picked me , '' shouted Pokey , regardless of Jamie's efforts to restrain her .
Captain Dove looked rather taken aback at this outbreak in the ranks ; but , being a dignified and calm personage , he quelled the rising rebellion with great tact and skill , by saying , briefly , `` We'll sing the last hymn ; ` Sweet , sweet good-by ' you all know that , so do it nicely , and then we will go and have luncheon . ''
Peace was instantly restored , and a burst of melody drowned the suppressed giggles of Rose and Mac , who found it impossible to keep sober during the latter part of this somewhat remarkable service .
Fifteen minutes of repose rendered it a physical impossibility for the company to march out as quietly as they had marched in .
I grieve to state that the entire troop raced home as hard as they could pelt , and were soon skirmishing briskly over their lunch , utterly oblivious of what Jamie , who had been much impressed by the sermon , called `` the captain's beautiful teck . ''
It was astonishing how much they all found to do at Cosey Corner ; and Mac , instead of lying in a hammock and being read to , as he had expected , was busiest of all .
He was invited to survey and lay out Skeeterville , a town which the children were getting up in a huckleberry pasture ; and he found much amusement in planning little roads , staking off house-lots , attending to the water-works , and consulting with the `` selectmen '' about the best sites for public buildings ; for Mac was a boy still , in spite of his fifteen years and his love of books .
Then he went fishing with a certain jovial gentleman from the West ; and though they seldom caught anything but colds , they had great fun and exercise chasing the phantom trout they were bound to have .
Mac also developed a geological mania , and went tapping about at rocks and stones , discoursing wisely of `` strata , periods , and fossil remains '' ; while Rose picked up leaves and lichens , and gave him lessons in botany in return for his lectures on geology .
They led a very merry life ; for the Atkinson girls kept up a sort of perpetual picnic ; and did it so capitally , that one was never tired of it .
So their visitors throve finely , and long before the month was out it was evident that Dr. Alec had prescribed the right medicine for his patients .
The twelfth of October was Rose's birthday , but no one seemed to remember that interesting fact , and she felt delicate about mentioning it , so fell asleep the night before wondering if she would have any presents .
That question was settled early the next morning , for she was awakened by a soft tap on her face , and opening her eyes she beheld a little black and white figure sitting on her pillow , staring at her with a pair of round eyes very like blueberries , while one downy paw patted her nose to attract her notice .
It was Kitty Comet , the prettiest of all the pussies , and Comet evidently had a mission to perform , for a pink bow adorned her neck , and a bit of paper was pinned to it bearing the words , `` For Miss Rose , from Frank . ''
That pleased her extremely , and that was only the beginning of the fun , for surprises and presents kept popping out in the most delightful manner all through the day , the Atkinson girls being famous jokers and Rose a favourite .
But the best gift of all came on the way to Mount Windy-Top , where it was decided to picnic in honour of the great occasion .
Three jolly loads set off soon after breakfast , for everybody went , and everybody seemed bound to have an extra good time , especially Mother Atkinson , who wore a hat as broad-brimmed as an umbrella , and took the dinner-horn to keep her flock from straying away .
`` I 'm going to drive auntie and a lot of the babies , so you must ride the pony .
And please stay behind us a good bit when we go to the station , for a parcel is coming , and you are not to see it till dinner-time .
You won't mind , will you ? ''
said Mac , in a confidential aside during the wild flurry of the start .
`` Not a bit , '' answered Rose .
`` It hurts my feelings very much to be told to keep out of the way at any other time , but birthdays and Christmas it is part of the fun to be blind and stupid , and poked into corners .
I'll be ready as soon as you are , Giglamps . ''
`` Stop under the big maple till I call then you can't possibly see anything , '' added Mac , as he mounted her on the pony his father had sent up for his use .
`` Barkis '' was so gentle and so `` willin ' , '' however , that Rose was ashamed to be afraid to ride him ; so she had learned , that she might surprise Dr. Alec when she got home ; meantime she had many a fine canter `` over the hills and far away '' with Mac , who preferred Mr. Atkinson's old Sorrel .
Away they went , and , coming to the red maple , Rose obediently paused ; but could not help stealing a glance in the forbidden direction before the call came .
Yes , there was a hamper going under the seat , and then she caught sight of a tall man whom Mac seemed to be hustling into the carriage in a great hurry .
One look was enough , and with a cry of delight , Rose was off down the road as fast as Barkis could go .
`` Now I'll astonish uncle , '' she thought .
`` I'll dash up in grand style , and show him that I am not a coward , after all . ''
Fired by this ambition , she startled Barkis by a sharp cut , and still more bewildered him by leaving him to his own guidance down the steep , stony road .
The approach would have been a fine success if , just as Rose was about to pull up and salute , two or three distracted hens had not scuttled across the road with a great squawking , which caused Barkis to shy and stop so suddenly that his careless rider landed in an ignominious heap just under old Sorrel's astonished nose .
Rose was up again before Dr. Alec was out of the carryall , and threw two dusty arms about his neck crying with a breathless voice , `` O uncle , I 'm so glad to see you !
It is better than a cart-load of goodies , and so dear of you to come ! ''
`` But aren't you hurt , child !
That was a rough tumble , and I 'm afraid you must be damaged somewhere , '' answered the Doctor , full of fond anxiety , as he surveyed his girl with pride .
`` My feelings are hurt , but my bones are all safe .
It's too bad !
I was going to do it so nicely , and those stupid hens spoilt it all , '' said Rose , quite crestfallen , as well as much shaken .
`` I couldn't believe my eyes when I asked ` Where is Rose ? '
and Mac pointed to the little Amazon pelting down the hill at such a rate .
You couldn't have done anything that would please me more , and I 'm delighted to see how well you ride .
Now , will you mount again , or shall we turn Mac out and take you in ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , as Aunt Jessie proposed a start , for the others were beckoning them to follow .
`` Pride goeth before a fall better not try to show off again , ma'am , '' said Mac , who would have been more than mortal if he had refrained from teasing when so good a chance offered .
`` Pride does go before a fall , but I wonder if a sprained ankle always comes after it ? ''
thought Rose , bravely concealing her pain , as she answered , with great dignity , `` I prefer to ride .
Come on , and see who will catch up first . ''
She was up and away as she spoke , doing her best to efface the memory of her downfall by sitting very erect , elbows down , head well up , and taking the motion of the pony as Barkis cantered along as easily as a rocking-chair .
`` You ought to see her go over a fence and race when we ride together .
She can scud , too , like a deer when we play ` Follow the leader , ' and skip stones and bat balls almost as well as I can , '' said Mac , in reply to his uncle's praise of his pupil .
`` I 'm afraid you will think her a sad tomboy , Alec ; but really she seems so well and happy , I have not the heart to check her .
She has broken out in the most unexpected way , and frisks like a colt ; for she says she feels so full of spirits she must run and shout whether it is proper or not , '' added Mrs. Jessie , who had been a pretty hoyden years ago herself .
`` Good good !
that's the best news you could tell me , '' and Dr. Alec rubbed his hands heartily .
`` Let the girl run and shout as much as she will it is a sure sign of health , and as natural to a happy child as frisking is to any young animal full of life .
Tomboys make strong women usually , and I had far rather find Rose playing football with Mac than puttering over bead-work like that affected midget , Ariadne Blish . ''
`` But she can not go on playing football very long , and we must not forget that she has a woman's work to do by and by , '' began Mrs. Jessie .
`` Neither will Mac play football much longer , but he will be all the better fitted for business , because of the health it gives him .
Polish is easily added , if the foundations are strong ; but no amount of gilding will be of use if your timber is not sound .
I 'm sure I 'm right , Jessie ; and if I can do as well by my girl during the next six months as I have the last , my experiment will succeed . ''
`` It certainly will ; for when I contrast that bright , blooming face with the pale , listless one that made my heart ache a while ago , I can believe in almost any miracle , '' said Mrs. Jessie , as Rose looked round to point out a lovely view , with cheeks like the ruddy apples in the orchard near by , eyes clear as the autumn sky overhead , and vigour in every line of her girlish figure .
A general scramble among the rocks was followed by a regular gypsy lunch , which the young folks had the rapture of helping to prepare .
Mother Atkinson put on her apron , turned up her sleeves , and fell to work as gaily as if in her own kitchen , boiling the kettle slung on three sticks , over a fire of cones and fir boughs ; while the girls spread the mossy table with a feast of country goodies , and the children tumbled about in everyone's way till the toot of the horn made them settle down like a flock of hungry birds .
As soon as the merry meal and a brief interval of repose were over , it was unanimously voted to have some charades .
A smooth , green spot between two stately pines was chosen for the stage ; shawls hung up , properties collected , audience and actors separated , and a word quickly chosen .
The first scene discovered Mac in a despondent attitude and shabby dress , evidently much troubled in mind .
To him entered a remarkable creature with a brown paper bag over its head .
A little pink nose peeped through one hole in the middle , white teeth through another , and above two eyes glared fiercely .
Spires of grass stuck in each side of the mouth seemed meant to represent whiskers ; the upper corners of the bag were twisted like ears , and no one could doubt for a moment that the black scarf pinned on behind was a tail .
This singular animal seemed in pantomime to be comforting his master and offering advice , which was finally acted upon , for Mac pulled off his boots , helped the little beast into them , and gave him a bag ; then , kissing his paw , with a hopeful gesture , the creature retired , purring so successfully that there was a general cry of `` Cat , puss , boots ! ''
`` Cat is the word , '' replied a voice , and the curtain fell .
The next scene was a puzzler , for in came another animal , on all-fours this time , with a new sort of tail and long ears .
A gray shawl concealed its face , but an inquisitive sunbeam betrayed the glitter as of goggles under the fringe .
On its back rode a small gentleman in Eastern costume , who appeared to find some difficulty in keeping his seat as his steed jogged along .
Suddenly a spirit appeared , all in white , with long newspaper wings upon its back and golden locks about its face .
Singularly enough , the beast beheld this apparition and backed instantly , but the rider evidently saw nothing and whipped up unmercifully , also unsuccessfully , for the spirit stood directly in the path , and the amiable beast would not budge a foot .
A lively skirmish followed , which ended in the Eastern gentleman being upset into a sweet-fern bush , while the better bred animal abased itself before the shining one .
The children were all in the dark till Mother Atkinson said , in an inquiring tone , `` If that isn't Balaam and the ass , I 'd like to know what it is .
Rose makes a sweet angel , doesn't she ? ''
`` Ass '' was evidently the word , and the angel retired , smiling with mundane satisfaction over the compliment that reached her ears .
The next was a pretty little scene from the immortal story of `` Babes in the Wood . ''
Jamie and Pokey came trotting in , hand in hand , and , having been through the parts many times before , acted with great ease and much fluency , audibly directing each other from time to time as they went along .
The berries were picked , the way lost , tears shed , baby consolation administered , and then the little pair lay down among the brakes and died with their eyes wide open and the toes of their four little boots turned up to the daisies in the most pathetic manner .
`` Now the wobins tum .
You be twite dead , Dimmy , and I'll peep in and see 'em , '' one defunct innocent was heard to say .
`` I hope they'll be quick , for I 'm lying on a stone , and ants are walking up my leg like fury , '' murmured the other .
Here the robins came flapping in with red scarves over their breasts and leaves in their mouths , which they carefully laid upon the babes wherever they would show best .
A prickly blackberry leaf placed directly over Pokey's nose caused her to sneeze so violently that her little legs flew into the air ; Jamie gave a startled `` Ow ! ''
and the pitying fowls fled giggling .
After some discussion it was decided that the syllable must be `` strew or strow '' and then they waited to see if it was a good guess .
This scene discovered Annette Snow in bed , evidently very ill ; Miss Jenny was her anxious mamma , and her merry conversation amused the audience till Mac came in as a physician , and made great fun with his big watch , pompous manner , and absurd questions .
He prescribed one pellet with an unpronounceable name , and left after demanding twenty dollars for his brief visit .
The pellet was administered , and such awful agonies immediately set in that the distracted mamma bade a sympathetic neighbour run for Mother Know-all .
The neighbour ran , and in came a brisk little old lady in cap and specs , with a bundle of herbs under her arm , which she at once applied in all sorts of funny ways , explaining their virtues as she clapped a plantain poultice here , put a pounded catnip plaster there , or tied a couple of mullein leaves round the sufferer's throat .
Instant relief ensued , the dying child sat up and demanded baked beans .
The grateful parent offered fifty dollars ; but Mother Know-all indignantly refused it and went smiling away , declaring that a neighbourly turn needed no reward , and a doctor's fee was all a humbug .
The audience were in fits of laughter over this scene , for Rose imitated Mrs. Atkinson capitally , and the herb cure was a good hit at the excellent lady's belief that `` yarbs '' would save mankind if properly applied .
No one enjoyed it more than herself , and the saucy children prepared for the grand finale in high feather .
This closing scene was brief but striking , for two trains of cars whizzed in from opposite sides , met with a terrible collision in the middle of the stage , and a general smash-up completed the word catastrophe .
`` Now let us act a proverb .
I've got one all ready , '' said Rose , who was dying to distinguish herself in some way before Uncle Alec .
So everyone but Mac , the gay Westerner , and Rose , took their places on the rocky seats and discussed the late beautiful and varied charade , in which Pokey frankly pronounced her own scene the `` bestest of all . ''
In five minutes the curtain was lifted ; nothing appeared but a very large sheet of brown paper pinned to a tree , and on it was drawn a clock-face , the hands pointing to four .
A small note below informed the public that 4 A.M. was the time .
Hardly had the audience grasped this important fact when a long waterproof serpent was seen uncoiling itself from behind a stump .
An inch-worm , perhaps , would be a better description , for it travelled in the same humpy way as that pleasing reptile .
Suddenly a very wide-awake and active fowl advanced , pecking , chirping , and scratching vigorously .
A tuft of green leaves waved upon his crest , a larger tuft of brakes made an umbrageous tail , and a shawl of many colours formed his flapping wings .
A truly noble bird , whose legs had the genuine strut , whose eyes shone watchfully , and whose voice had a ring that evidently struck terror into the catterpillar's soul , if it was a catterpillar .
He squirmed , he wriggled , he humped as fast as he could , trying to escape ; but all in vain .
The tufted bird espied him , gave one warbling sort of crow , pounced upon him , and flapped triumphantly away .
`` That early bird got such a big worm he could hardly carry him off , '' laughed Aunt Jessie , as the children shouted over the joke suggested by Mac's nickname .
`` That is one of uncle's favourite proverbs , so I got it up for his especial benefit , '' said Rose , coming up with the two-legged worm beside her .
`` Very clever ; what next ? ''
asked Dr. Alec as she sat down beside him .
`` The Dove boys are going to give us an ` Incident in the Life of Napoleon , ' as they call it ; the children think it very splendid , and the little fellows do it rather nicely , '' answered Mac with condescension .
A tent appeared , and pacing to and fro before it was a little sentinel , who , in a brief soliloquy , informed the observers that the elements were in a great state of confusion , that he had marched some hundred miles or so that day , and that he was dying for want of sleep .
Then he paused , leaned upon his gun , and seemed to doze ; dropped slowly down , overpowered with slumber , and finally lay flat , with his gun beside him , a faithless little sentinel .
Enter Napoleon , cocked hat , gray coat , high boots , folded arms , grim mouth , and a melodramatic stride .
Freddy Dove always covered himself with glory in this part , and `` took the stage '' with a Napoleonic attitude that brought down the house ; for the big-headed boy , with solemn , dark eyes and square brow , was `` the very moral of that rascal , Boneyparty , '' Mother Atkinson said .
Some great scheme was evidently brewing in his mighty mind a trip across the Alps , a bonfire at Moscow , or a little skirmish at Waterloo perhaps , for he marched in silent majesty till suddenly a gentle snore disturbed the imperial reverie .
He saw the sleeping soldier and glared upon him , saying in an awful tone , `` Ha !
asleep at his post !
Death is the penalty he must die ! ''
Picking up the musket , he is about to execute summary justice , as emperors are in the habit of doing , when something in the face of the weary sentinel appears to touch him .
And well it might , for a most engaging little warrior was Jack as he lay with his shako half off , his childish face trying to keep sober , and a great black moustache over his rosy mouth .
It would have softened the heart of any Napoleon , and the Little Corporal proved himself a man by relenting , and saying , with a lofty gesture of forgiveness , `` Brave fellow , he is worn out ; I will let him sleep , and mount guard in his place . ''
Then , shouldering the gun , this noble being strode to and fro with a dignity which thrilled the younger spectators .
The sentinel awakes , sees what has happened , and gives himself up for lost .
But the Emperor restores his weapon , and , with that smile which won all hearts , says , pointing to a high rock whereon a crow happens to be sitting , `` Be brave , be vigilant , and remember that from yonder Pyramid generations are beholding you , '' and with these memorable words he vanishes , leaving the grateful soldier bolt upright , with his hand at his temple and deathless devotion stamped upon his youthful countenance .
The applause which followed this superb piece had hardly subsided , when a sudden splash and a shrill cry caused a general rush toward the waterfall that went gambolling down the rocks , singing sweetly as it ran .
Pokey had tried to gambol also , and had tumbled into a shallow pool , whither Jamie had gallantly followed , in a vain attempt to fish her out , and both were paddling about half frightened , half pleased with the unexpected bath .
This mishap made it necessary to get the dripping infants home as soon as possible ; so the wagons were loaded up , and away they went , as merry as if the mountain air had really been `` Oxygenated Sweets not Bitters , '' as Dr. Alec suggested when Mac said he felt as jolly as if he had been drinking champagne instead of the current wine that came with a great frosted cake wreathed with sugar roses in Aunt Plenty's hamper of goodies .
Rose took part in all the fun , and never betrayed by look or word the twinges of pain she suffered in her ankle .
She excused herself from the games in the evening , however , and sat talking to Uncle Alec in a lively way , that both amazed and delighted him ; for she confided to him that she played horse with the children , drilled with the light infantry , climbed trees , and did other dreadful things that would have caused the aunts to cry aloud if they knew of them .
`` I don't care a pin what they say if you don't mind , uncle , '' she answered , when he pictured the dismay of the good ladies .
`` Ah , it's all very well to defy them , but you are getting so rampant , I 'm afraid you will defy me next , and then where are we ? ''
`` No , I won't !
I shouldn't dare ; because you are my guardian , and can put me in a strait-jacket if you like ; '' and Rose laughed in his face , even while she nestled closer with a confiding gesture pleasant to see .
`` Upon my word , Rosy , I begin to feel like the man who bought an elephant , and then didn't know what to do with him .
I thought I had got a pet and plaything for years to come ; but here you are growing up like a bean-stalk , and I shall find I've got a strong-minded little woman on my hands before I can turn round .
There's predicament for a man and an uncle ! ''
Dr. Alec's comic distress was mercifully relieved for the time being by a dance of goblins on the lawn , where the children , with pumpkin lanterns on their heads , frisked about like will-o ' - the-wisps , as a parting surprise .
When Rose went to bed , she found that Uncle Alec had not forgotten her ; for on the table stood a delicate little easel , holding two miniatures set in velvet .
She knew them both , and stood looking at them till her eyes brimmed over with tears that were both sweet and sad ; for they were the faces of her father and mother , beautifully copied from portraits fast fading away .
Presently , she knelt down , and , putting her arms round the little shrine , kissed one after the other , saying with an earnest voice , `` I'll truly try to make them glad to see me by and by . ''
And that was Rose's little prayer on the night of her fourteenth birthday .
Two days later the Campbells went home , a larger party than when they came ; for Dr. Alec was escort and Kitty Comet was borne in state in a basket , with a bottle of milk , some tiny sandwiches , and a doll's dish to drink out of , as well as a bit of carpet to lie on in her palace car , out of which she kept popping her head in the most fascinating manner .
There was a great kissing and cuddling , waving of handkerchiefs , and last good-byes , as they went ; and when they had started , Mother Atkinson came running after them , to tuck in some little pies , hot from the oven , `` for the dears , who might get tired of bread and butter during that long day's travel . ''
Another start , and another halt ; for the Snow children came shrieking up to demand the three kittens that Pokey was cooly carrying off in a travelling bag .
The unhappy kits were rescued , half smothered , and restored to their lawful owners , amid dire lamentation from the little kidnapper , who declared that she only `` tooked um 'cause they 'd want to go wid their sister Tomit . ''
Start number three and stoppage number three , as Frank hailed them with the luncheon basket , which had been forgotten , after everyone had protested that it was safely in .
All went well after that , and the long journey was pleasantly beguiled by Pokey and Pussy , who played together so prettily that they were considered public benefactors .
`` Rose doesn't want to go home , for she knows the aunts won't let her rampage as she did up at Cosey Corner , '' said Mac , as they approached the old house .
`` I can't rampage if I want to for a time , at least ; and I'll tell you why .
I sprained my ankle when I tumbled off of Barkis , and it gets worse and worse ; though I've done all I know to cure it and hide it , so it shouldn't trouble anyone , '' whispered Rose , knitting her brows with pain , as she prepared to descend , wishing her uncle would take her instead of her bundles .
How he did it , she never knew ; but Mac had her up the steps and on the parlour sofa before she could put her foot to the ground .
`` There you are right side up with care ; and mind , now , if your ankle bothers you , and you are laid up with it , I am to be your footman .
It's only fair , you know ; for I don't forget how good you have been to me . ''
And Mac went to call Phebe , so full of gratitude and good-will that his very goggles shone .
Rose's sprain proved to be a serious one , owing to neglect , and Dr. Alec ordered her to lie on the sofa for a fortnight at least ; whereat she groaned dismally , but dared not openly complain , lest the boys turn upon her with some of the wise little sermons on patience which she had delivered for their benefit .
It was Mac's turn now , and honourably did he repay his debt ; for , as school was still forbidden , he had plenty of leisure , and devoted most of it to Rose .
He took many steps for her , and even allowed her to teach him to knit , after assuring himself that many a brave Scotchman knew how to `` click the pricks . ''
She was obliged to take a solemn vow of secrecy , however , before he would consent ; for , though he did not mind being called `` Giglamps , '' `` Granny '' was more than his boyish soul could bear , and at the approach of any of the Clan his knitting vanished as if by magic , which frequent `` chucking '' out of sight did not improve the stripe he was doing for Rose's new afghan .
She was busy with this pretty work one bright October afternoon , all nicely established on her sofa in the upper hall , while Jamie and Pokey , lent for her amusement , were keeping house in a corner , with Comet and Rose's old doll for their `` childerns . ''
Presently , Phebe appeared with a card .
Rose read it , made a grimace , then laughed and said , `` I'll see Miss Blish , '' and immediately put on her company face , pulled out her locket , and settled her curls .
`` You dear thing , how do you do ?
I've been trying to call every day since you got back , but I have so many engagements , I really couldn't manage it till to-day .
So glad you are alone , for mamma said I could sit awhile , and I brought my lace-work to show you , for it's perfectly lovely . ''
cried Miss Blish , greeting Rose with a kiss , which was not very warmly returned , though Rose politely thanked her for coming , and bid Phebe roll up the easy chair .
`` How nice to have a maid ! ''
said Ariadne , as she settled herself with much commotion .
`` Still , dear , you must be very lonely , and feel the need of a bosom friend . ''
`` I have my cousins , '' began Rose , with dignity , for her visitor's patronising manner ruffled her temper .
`` Gracious , child !
you don't make friends of those great boys , do you ?
Mamma says she really doesn't think it's proper for you to be with them so much . ''
`` They are like brothers , and my aunts do think it's proper , '' replied Rose , rather sharply , for it struck her that this was none of Miss Blish's business .
`` I was merely going to say I should be glad to have you for my bosom friend , for Hatty Mason and I have had an awful quarrel , and don't speak .
She is too mean to live , so I gave her up .
Just think , she never paid back one of the caramels I've given her , and never invited me to her party .
I could have forgiven the caramels , but to be left out in that rude way was more than I could bear , and I told her never to look at me again as long as she lived . ''
`` You are very kind , but I don't think I want a bosom friend , thank you , '' said Rose , as Ariadne stopped to bridle and shake her flaxen head over the delinquent Hatty Mason .
Now , in her heart Miss Blish thought Rose `` a stuck-up puss , '' but the other girls wanted to know her and couldn't , the old house was a charming place to visit , the lads were considered fine fellows , and the Campbells `` are one of our first families , '' mamma said .
So Ariadne concealed her vexation at Rose's coolness , and changed the subject as fast as possible .
`` Studying French , I see ; who is your teacher ? ''
she asked , flitting over the leaves of `` Paul and Virginia , '' that lay on the table .
`` I don't study it , for I read French as well as English , and uncle and I often speak it for hours .
He talks like a native , and says I have a remarkably good accent . ''
Rose really could not help this small display of superiority , for French was one of her strong points , and she was vain of it , though she usually managed to hide this weakness .
She felt that Ariadne would be the better for a little crushing , and could not resist the temptation to patronise in her turn .
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
said Miss Blish , rather blankly , for French was not her strong point by any means .
`` I am to go abroad with uncle in a year or two , and he knows how important it is to understand the languages .
Half the girls who leave school can't speak decent French , and when they go abroad they are so mortified .
I shall be very glad to help you , if you like , for , of course , you have no one to talk with at home . ''
Now Ariadne , though she looked like a wax doll , had feelings within her instead of sawdust , and these feelings were hurt by Rose's lofty tone .
She thought her more `` stuck up '' than ever , but did not know how to bring her down , yet longed to do it , for she felt as if she had received a box on the ear , and involuntarily put her hand up to it .
The touch of an ear-ring consoled her , and suggested a way of returning tit for tat in a telling manner .
`` Thank you , dear ; I don't need any help , for our teacher is from Paris , and of course he speaks better French than your uncle . ''
Then she added , with a gesture of her head that set the little bells on her ears to tingling : `` How do you like my new ear-rings ?
Papa gave them to me last week , and everyone says they are lovely . ''
Rose came down from her high horse with a rapidity that was comical , for Ariadne had the upper hand now .
Rose adored pretty things , longed to wear them , and the desire of her girlish soul was to have her ears bored , only Dr. Alec thought it foolish , so she never had done it .
She would gladly have given all the French she could jabber for a pair of golden bells with pearl-tipped tongues , like those Ariadne wore ; and , clasping her hands , she answered , in a tone that went to the hearer's heart , `` They are too sweet for anything !
If uncle would only let me wear some , I should be perfectly happy . ''
`` I wouldn't mind what he says .
Papa laughed at me at first , but he likes them now , and says I shall have diamond solitaires when I am eighteen , '' said Ariadne , quite satisfied with her shot .
`` I've got a pair now that were mamma's , and a beautiful little pair of pearl and turquoise ones , that I am dying to wear , '' sighed Rose .
`` Then do it .
I'll pierce your ears , and you must wear a bit of silk in them till they are well ; your curls will hide them nicely ; then , some day , slip in your smallest ear-rings , and see if your uncle don't like them . ''
`` I asked him if it wouldn't do my eyes good once when they were red , and he only laughed .
People do cure weak eyes that way , don't they ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , and yours are sort of red .
Let me see .
Yes , I really think you ought to do it before they get worse , '' said Ariadne , peering into the large clear eye offered for inspection .
`` Does it hurt much ? ''
asked Rose , wavering .
`` Oh dear , no ; just a prick and a pull , and it's all over .
I've done lots of ears , and know just how .
Come , push up your hair and get a big needle . ''
`` I don't quite like to do it without asking uncle's leave , '' faltered Rose , when all was ready for the operation .
`` Did he ever forbid it ? ''
demanded Ariadne , hovering over her prey like a vampire .
`` No , never ! ''
`` Then do it , unless you are afraid , '' cried Miss Blish , bent on accomplishing the deed .
That last word settled the matter , and , closing her eyes , Rose said `` Punch ! ''
in the tone of one giving the fatal order `` Fire ! ''
Ariadne punched , and the victim bore it in heroic silence , though she turned pale and her eyes were full of tears of anguish .
`` There !
Now pull the bits of silk often , and cold-cream your ears every night , and you'll soon be ready for the rings , '' said Ariadne , well pleased with her job , for the girl who spoke French with `` a fine accent '' lay flat upon the sofa , looking as exhausted as if she had had both ears cut off .
`` It does hurt dreadfully , and I know uncle won't like it , '' sighed Rose , as remorse began to gnaw .
`` Promise not to tell , or I shall be teased to death , '' she added , anxiously , entirely forgetting the two little pitchers gifted with eyes as well as ears , who had been watching the whole performance from afar .
`` Never .
Mercy me , what's that ? ''
and Ariadne started as a sudden sound of steps and voices came up from below .
`` It's the boys !
Hide the needle .
Do my ears show ?
Don't breathe a word ! ''
whispered Rose , scrambling about to conceal all traces of their iniquity from the sharp eyes of the Clan .
Up they came , all in good order , laden with the proceeds of a nutting expedition , for they always reported to Rose and paid tribute to their queen in the handsomest manner .
`` How many , and how big !
We'll have a grand roasting frolic after tea , won't we ? ''
said Rose , plunging both hands into a bag of glossy brown nuts , while the Clan `` stood at ease '' and nodded to Ariadne .
`` That lot was picked especially for you , Rosy .
I got every one myself , and they are extra whackers , '' said Mac , presenting a bushel or so .
`` You should have seen Giglamps when he was after them .
He pitched out of the tree , and would have broken his blessed old neck if Arch had not caught him , '' observed Steve , as he lounged gracefully in the window seat .
`` You needn't talk , Dandy , when you didn't know a chestnut from a beech , and kept on thrashing till I told you of it , '' retorted Mac , festooning himself over the back of the sofa , being a privileged boy .
`` I don't make mistakes when I thrash you , old Worm , so you 'd better mind what you are about , '' answered Steve , without a ray of proper respect for his elder brother .
`` It is getting dark , and I must go , or mamma will be alarmed , '' said Ariadne , rising in sudden haste , though she hoped to be asked to remain to the nut-party .
No one invited her ; and all the while she was putting on her things and chatting to Rose the boys were telegraphing to one another the sad fact that someone ought to escort the young lady home .
Not a boy felt heroic enough to cast himself into the breach , however ; even polite Archie shirked the duty , saying to Charlie , as they quietly slipped into an adjoining room , `` I 'm not going to do all the gallivanting .
Let Steve take that chit home and show his manners . ''
`` I'll be hanged if I do ! ''
answered Prince , who disliked Miss Blish because she tried to be coquettish with him .
`` Then I will , '' and , to the dismay of both recreant lads , Dr. Alec walked out of the room to offer his services to the `` chit . ''
He was too late , however , for Mac , obeying a look from Rose , had already made a victim of himself , and trudged meekly away , wishing the gentle Ariadne at the bottom of the Red Sea .
`` Then I will take this lady down to tea , as the other one has found a gentleman to go home with her .
I see the lamps are lighted below , and I smell a smell which tells me that auntie has something extra nice for us to-night . ''
As he spoke , Dr. Alec was preparing to carry Rose downstairs as usual ; but Archie and Prince rushed forward , begging with penitent eagerness for the honour of carrying her in an arm-chair .
Rose consented , fearing that her uncle's keen eye would discover the fatal bits of silk ; so the boys crossed hands , and , taking a good grip of each curly pate , she was borne down in state , while the others followed by way of the banisters .
Tea was ordered earlier than usual , so that Jamie and his dolly could have a taste , at least , of the holiday fun , for they were to stay till seven , and be allowed twelve roasted chestnuts apiece , which they were under bonds not to eat till next day .
Tea was despatched rapidly , therefore , and the party gathered round the wide hearth in the dining-room , where the nuts were soon dancing gaily on hot shovels or bouncing out among the company , thereby causing delightful panics among the little ones .
`` Come , Rosy , tell us a story while we work , for you can't help much , and must amuse us as your share , '' proposed Mac , who sat in the shade pricking nuts , and who knew by experience what a capital little Scheherazade his cousin was .
`` Yes , we poor monkeys can't burn our paws for nothing , so tell away , Pussy , '' added Charlie , as he threw several hot nuts into her lap and shook his fingers afterwards .
`` Well , I happen to have a little story with a moral to it in my mind , and I will tell it , though it is intended for younger children than you , '' answered Rose , who was rather fond of telling instructive tales .
`` Fire away , '' said Geordie , and she obeyed , little thinking what a disastrous story it would prove to herself .
`` Well , once upon a time , a little girl went to see a young lady who was very fond of her .
Now , the young lady happened to be lame , and had to have her foot bandaged up every day ; so she kept a basketful of bandages , all nicely rolled and ready .
The little girl liked to play with this basket , and one day , when she thought no one saw her , she took one of the rolls without asking leave , and put it in her pocket . ''
Here Pokey , who had been peering lovingly down at the five warm nuts that lay at the bottom of her tiny pocket , suddenly looked up and said , `` Oh ! ''
in a startled tone , as if the moral tale had become intensely interesting all at once .
Rose heard and saw the innocent betrayal of the small sinner , and went on in a most impressive manner , while the boys nudged one another and winked as they caught the joke .
`` But an eye did see this naughty little girl , and whose eye do you think it was ? ''
`` Eye of Dod , '' murmured conscience-stricken Pokey , spreading two chubby little hands before the round face , which they were not half big enough to hide .
Rose was rather taken aback by this reply , but , feeling that she was producing a good effect , she added seriously , `` Yes , God saw her , and so did the young lady , but she did not say anything ; she waited to see what the little girl would do about it .
She had been very happy before she took the bandage , but when it was in her pocket she seemed troubled , and pretty soon stopped playing , and sat down in a corner looking very sober .
She thought a few minutes , and then went and put back the roll very softly , and her face cleared up , and she was a happy child again .
The young lady was glad to see that , and wondered what made the little girl put it back . ''
`` Tonscience p ` icked her , '' murmured a contrite voice from behind the small hands pressed tightly over Pokey's red face .
`` And why did she take it , do you suppose ? ''
asked Rose , in a school-marmish tone , feeling that all the listeners were interested in her tale and its unexpected application .
`` It was so nice and wound , and she wanted it deffly , '' answered the little voice .
`` Well , I 'm glad she had such a good conscience .
The moral is that people who steal don't enjoy what they take , and are not happy till they put it back .
What makes that little girl hide her face ? ''
asked Rose , as she concluded .
`` Me's so ` shamed of Pokey , '' sobbed the small culprit , quite overcome by remorse and confusion at this awful disclosure .
`` Come , Rose , it's too bad to tell her little tricks before everyone , and preach at her in that way ; you wouldn't like it yourself , '' began Dr. Alec , taking the weeper on his knee and administering consolation in the shape of kisses and nuts .
Before Rose could express her regret , Jamie , who had been reddening and ruffling like a little turkey-cock for several minutes , burst out indignantly , bent on avenging the wound given to his beloved dolly .
`` I know something bad that you did , and I 'm going to tell right out .
You thought we didn't see you , but we did , and you said uncle wouldn't like it , and the boys would tease , and you made Ariadne promise not to tell , and she punched holes in your ears to put ear-rings in .
So now !
and that's much badder than to take an old piece of rag ; and I hate you for making my Pokey cry . ''
Jamie's somewhat incoherent explosion produced such an effect that Pokey's small sin was instantly forgotten , and Rose felt that her hour had come .
`` What !
what !
what ! ''
cried the boys in a chorus , dropping their shovels and knives to gather round Rose , for a guilty clutching at her ears betrayed her , and with a feeble cry of `` Ariadne made me ! ''
she hid her head among the pillows like an absurd little ostrich .
`` Now she'll go prancing round with bird cages and baskets and carts and pigs , for all I know , in her ears , as the other girls do , and won't she look like a goose ? ''
asked one tormentor , tweaking a curl that strayed out from the cushions .
`` I didn't think she 'd be so silly , '' said Mac , in a tone of disappointment that told Rose she had sunk in the esteem of her wise cousin .
`` That Blish girl is a nuisance , and ought not to be allowed to come here with her nonsensical notions , '' said the Prince , feeling a strong desire to shake that young person as an angry dog might shake a mischievous kitten .
`` How do you like it , uncle ? ''
asked Archie , who , being the head of a family himself , believed in preserving discipline at all costs .
`` I am very much surprised ; but I see she is a girl , after all , and must have her vanities like all the rest of them , '' answered Dr. Alec , with a sigh , as if he had expected to find Rose a sort of angel , above all earthly temptations .
`` What shall you do about it , sir ? ''
inquired Geordie , wondering what punishment would be inflicted on a feminine culprit .
`` As she is fond of ornaments , perhaps we had better give her a nose-ring also .
I have one somewhere that a Fiji belle once wore ; I'll look it up , '' and , leaving Pokey to Jamie's care , Dr. Alec rose as if to carry out his suggestion in earnest .
`` Good !
good !
We'll do it right away !
Here's a gimlet , so you hold her , boys , while I get her dear little nose all ready , '' cried Charlie , whisking away the pillow as the other boys danced about the sofa in true Fiji style .
It was a dreadful moment , for Rose could not run away she could only grasp her precious nose with one hand and extend the other , crying distractedly , `` O uncle , save me , save me ! ''
Of course he saved her ; and when she was securely barricaded by his strong arm , she confessed her folly in such humiliation of spirit , that the lads , after a good laugh at her , decided to forgive her and lay all the blame on the tempter , Ariadne .
Even Dr. Alec relented so far as to propose two gold rings for the ears instead of one copper one for the nose ; a proceeding which proved that if Rose had all the weakness of her sex for jewellery , he had all the inconsistency of his in giving a pretty penitent exactly what she wanted , spite of his better judgment .
`` What in the world is my girl thinking about all alone here , with such a solemn face ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , coming into the study , one November day , to find Rose sitting there with folded hands and a very thoughtful aspect .
`` Uncle , I want to have some serious conversation with you , if you have time , '' she said , coming out of a brown study , as if she had not heard his question .
`` I 'm entirely at your service , and most happy to listen , '' he answered , in his politest manner , for when Rose put on her womanly little airs he always treated her with a playful sort of respect that pleased her very much .
Now , as he sat down beside her , she said , very soberly , `` I've been trying to decide what trade I would learn , and I want you to advise me . ''
`` Trade , my dear ? ''
and Dr. Alec looked so astonished that she hastened to explain .
`` I forgot that you didn't hear the talk about it up at Cosey Corner .
You see we used to sit under the pines and sew , and talk a great deal all the ladies , I mean and I liked it very much .
Mother Atkinson thought that everyone should have a trade , or something to make a living out of , for rich people may grow poor , you know , and poor people have to work .
Her girls were very clever , and could do ever so many things , and Aunt Jessie thought the old lady was right ; so when I saw how happy and independent those young ladies were , I wanted to have a trade , and then it wouldn't matter about money , though I like to have it well enough . ''
Dr. Alec listened to this explanation with a curious mixture of surprise , pleasure , and amusement in his face , and looked at his little niece as if she had suddenly changed into a young woman .
She had grown a good deal in the last six months , and an amount of thinking had gone on in that young head which would have astonished him greatly could he have known it all , for Rose was one of the children who observe and meditate much , and now and then nonplus their friends by a wise or curious remark .
`` I quite agree with the ladies , and shall be glad to help you decide on something if I can , '' said the Doctor seriously .
`` What do you incline to ?
A natural taste or talent is a great help in choosing , you know . ''
`` I haven't any talent , or any especial taste that I can see , and that is why I can't decide , uncle .
So , I think it would be a good plan to pick out some very useful business and learn it , because I don't do it for pleasure , you see , but as a part of my education , and to be ready in case I 'm ever poor , '' answered Rose , looking as if she rather longed for a little poverty so that her useful gift might be exercised .
`` Well , now , there is one very excellent , necessary , and womanly accomplishment that no girl should be without , for it is a help to rich and poor , and the comfort of families depends upon it .
This fine talent is neglected nowadays , and considered old-fashioned , which is a sad mistake , and one that I don't mean to make in bringing up my girl .
It should be a part of every girl's education , and I know of a most accomplished lady who will teach you in the best and pleasantest manner . ''
`` Oh , what is it ? ''
cried Rose eagerly , charmed to be met in this helpful and cordial way .
`` Housekeeping ! ''
answered Dr. Alec .
`` Is that an accomplishment ? ''
asked Rose , while her face fell , for she had indulged in all sorts of vague , delightful dreams .
`` Yes ; it is one of the most beautiful as well as useful of all the arts a woman can learn .
Not so romantic , perhaps , as singing , painting , writing , or teaching , even ; but one that makes many happy and comfortable , and home the sweetest place in the world .
Yes , you may open your big eyes ; but it is a fact that I had rather see you a good housekeeper than the greatest belle in the city .
It need not interfere with any talent you may possess , but it is a necessary part of your training , and I hope that you will set about it at once , now that you are well and strong . ''
`` Who is the lady ? ''
asked Rose , rather impressed by her uncle's earnest speech .
`` Aunt Plenty . ''
`` Is she accomplished ? ''
began Rose in a wondering tone , for this great-aunt of hers had seemed the least cultivated of them all .
`` In the good old-fashioned way she is very accomplished , and has made this house a happy home to us all , ever since we can remember .
She is not elegant , but genuinely good , and so beloved and respected that there will be universal mourning for her when her place is empty .
No one can fill it , for the solid , homely virtues of the dear soul have gone out of fashion , as I say , and nothing new can be half so satisfactory , to me at least . ''
`` I should like to have people feel so about me .
Can she teach me to do what she does , and to grow as good ? ''
asked Rose , with a little prick of remorse for even thinking that Aunt Plenty was a commonplace old lady .
`` Yes , if you don't despise such simple lessons as she can give .
I know it would fill her dear old heart with pride and pleasure to feel that anyone cared to learn of her , for she fancies her day gone by .
Let her teach you how to be what she has been a skilful , frugal , cheerful housewife ; the maker and the keeper of a happy home , and by and by you will see what a valuable lesson it is . ''
`` I will , uncle .
But how shall I begin ? ''
`` I'll speak to her about it , and she will make it all right with Dolly , for cooking is one of the main things , you know . ''
`` So it is !
I don't mind that a bit , for I like to mess , and used to try at home ; but I had no one to tell me , so I never did much but spoil my aprons .
Pies are great fun , only Dolly is so cross , I don't believe she will ever let me do a thing in the kitchen . ''
`` Then we'll cook in the parlour .
I fancy Aunt Plenty will manage her , so don't be troubled .
Only mind this , I 'd rather you learned how to make good bread than the best pies ever baked .
When you bring me a handsome , wholesome loaf , entirely made by yourself , I shall be more pleased than if you offered me a pair of slippers embroidered in the very latest style .
I don't wish to bribe you , but I'll give you my heartiest kiss , and promise to eat every crumb of the loaf myself . ''
`` It's a bargain !
it's a bargain !
Come and tell aunty all about it , for I 'm in a hurry to begin , '' cried Rose , dancing before him toward the parlor , where Miss Plenty sat alone knitting contentedly , yet ready to run at the first call for help of any sort , from any quarter .
No need to tell how surprised and gratified she was at the invitation she received to teach the child the domestic arts which were her only accomplishments , nor to relate how energetically she set about her pleasant task .
Dolly dared not grumble , for Miss Plenty was the one person whom she obeyed , and Phebe openly rejoiced , for these new lessons brought Rose nearer to her , and glorified the kitchen in the good girl's eyes .
To tell the truth , the elder aunts had sometimes felt that they did not have quite their share of the little niece who had won their hearts long ago , and was the sunshine of the house .
They talked it over together sometimes , but always ended by saying that as Alec had all the responsibility , he should have the larger share of the dear girl's love and time , and they would be contented with such crumbs of comfort as they could get .
Dr. Alec had found out this little secret , and , after reproaching himself for being blind and selfish , was trying to devise some way of mending matters without troubling anyone , when Rose's new whim suggested an excellent method of weaning her a little from himself .
He did not know how fond he was of her till he gave her up to the new teacher , and often could not resist peeping in at the door to see how she got on , or stealing sly looks through the slide when she was deep in dough , or listening intently to some impressive lecture from Aunt Plenty .
They caught him at it now and then , and ordered him off the premises at the point of the rolling-pin ; or , if unusually successful , and , therefore , in a milder mood , they lured him away with bribes of ginger-bread , a stray pickle , or a tart that was not quite symmetrical enough to suit their critical eyes .
Of course he made a point of partaking copiously of all the delectable messes that now appeared at table , for both the cooks were on their mettle , and he fared sumptuously every day .
But an especial relish was given to any dish when , in reply to his honest praise of it , Rose coloured up with innocent pride , and said modestly , `` I made that , uncle , and I 'm glad you like it . ''
It was some time before the perfect loaf appeared , for bread-making is an art not easily learned , and Aunt Plenty was very thorough in her teaching ; so Rose studied yeast first , and through various stages of cake and biscuit came at last to the crowning glory of the `` handsome , wholesome loaf . ''
It appeared at tea-time , on a silver salver , proudly borne in by Phebe , who could not refrain from whispering , with a beaming face , as she set it down before Dr. Alec , `` Ain't it just lovely , sir ? ''
`` It is a regularly splendid loaf !
Did my girl make it all herself ? ''
he asked , surveying the shapely , sweet-smelling object with real interest and pleasure .
`` Every particle herself , and never asked a bit of help or advice from anyone , '' answered Aunt Plenty , folding her hands with an air of unmitigated satisfaction , for her pupil certainly did her great credit .
`` I've had so many failures and troubles that I really thought I never should be able to do it alone .
Dolly let one splendid batch burn up because I forgot it .
She was there and smelt it , but never did a thing , for she said , when I undertook to bake bread I must give my whole mind to it .
Wasn't it hard ?
She might have called me at least , '' said Rose , recollecting , with a sigh , the anguish of that moment .
`` She meant you should learn by experience , as Rosamond did in that little affair of the purple jar , you remember . ''
`` I always thought it very unfair in her mother not to warn the poor thing a little bit ; and she was regularly mean when Rosamond asked for a bowl to put the purple stuff in , and she said , in such a provoking way , ' I did not agree to lend you a bowl , but I will , my dear . '
Ugh !
I always want to shake that hateful woman , though she was a moral mamma . ''
`` Never mind her now , but tell me all about my loaf , '' said Dr. Alec , much amused at Rose's burst of indignation .
`` There's nothing to tell , uncle , except that I did my best , gave my mind to it , and sat watching over it all the while it was in the oven till I was quite baked myself .
Everything went right this time , and it came out a nice , round , crusty loaf , as you see .
Now taste it , and tell me if it is good as well as handsome . ''
`` Must I cut it ?
Can't I put it under a glass cover and keep it in the parlor as they do wax flowers and fine works of that sort ? ''
`` What an idea , uncle !
It would mould and be spoilt .
Besides , people would laugh at us , and make fun of my old-fashioned accomplishment .
You promised to eat it , and you must ; not all at once , but as soon as you can , so I can make you some more . ''
Dr. Alec solemnly cut off his favourite crusty slice , and solemnly ate it ; then wiped his lips , and brushing back Rose's hair , solemnly kissed her on the forehead , saying , heartily , `` My dear , it is perfect bread , and you are an honour to your teacher .
When we have our model school I shall offer a prize for the best bread , and you will get it . ''
`` I've got it already , and I 'm quite satisfied , '' said Rose , slipping into her seat , and trying to hide her right hand which had a burn on it .
But Dr. Alec saw it , guessed how it came there , and after tea insisted on easing the pain which she would hardly confess .
`` Aunt Clara says I am spoiling my hands , but I don't care , for I've had such good times with Aunt Plenty , and I think she has enjoyed it as much as I have .
Only one thing troubles me , uncle , and I want to ask you about it , '' said Rose , as they paced up and down the hall in the twilight , the bandaged hand very carefully laid on Dr. Alec's arm .
`` More little confidences ?
I like them immensely , so tell away , my dear . ''
`` Well , you see I feel as if Aunt Peace would like to do something for me , and I've found out what it can be .
You know she can't go about like Aunty Plen , and we are so busy nowadays that she is rather lonely , I 'm afraid .
So I want to take lessons in sewing of her .
She works so beautifully , and it is a useful thing , you know , and I ought to be a good needlewoman as well as housekeeper , oughtn't I ? ''
`` Bless your kind little heart , that is what I was thinking of the other day when Aunt Peace said she saw you very seldom now , you were so busy I wanted to speak of it , but fancied you had as much on your hands as you could manage .
It would delight the dear woman to teach you all her delicate handicraft , especially button-holes , for I believe that is where young ladies fail ; at least , I've heard them say so .
So , do you devote your mind to button-holes ; make 'em all over my clothes if you want something to practice on .
I'll wear any quantity . ''
Rose laughed at this reckless offer , but promised to attend to that important branch , though she confessed that darning was her weak point .
Whereupon Uncle Alec engaged to supply her with socks in all stages of dilapidation , and to have a new set at once , so that she could run the heels for him as a pleasant beginning .
Then they went up to make their request in due form , to the great delight of gentle Aunt Peace , who got quite excited with the fun that went on while they would yarn , looked up darning needles , and fitted out a nice little mending basket for her pupil .
Very busy and very happy were Rose's days now , for in the morning she went about the house with Aunt Plenty attending to linen-closets and store-rooms , pickling and preserving , exploring garret and cellar to see that all was right , and learning , in the good old-fashioned manner , to look well after the ways of the household .
In the afternoon , after her walk or drive , she sat with Aunt Peace plying her needle , while Aunt Plenty , whose eyes were failing , knitted and chatted briskly , telling many a pleasant story of old times , till the three were moved to laugh and cry together , for the busy needles were embroidering all sorts of bright patterns on the lives of the workers , though they seemed to be only stitching cotton and darning hose .
It was a pretty sight to see the rosy-faced little maid sitting between the two old ladies , listening dutifully to their instructions , and cheering the lessons with her lively chatter and blithe laugh .
If the kitchen had proved attractive to Dr. Alec when Rose was there at work , the sewing-room was quite irresistible , and he made himself so agreeable that no one had the heart to drive him away , especially when he read aloud or spun yarns .
`` There !
I've made you a new set of warm night-gowns with four button-holes in each .
See if they are not neatly done , '' said Rose , one day , some weeks after the new lessons began .
`` Even to a thread , and nice little bars across the end so I can't tear them when I twitch the buttons out .
Most superior work , ma'am , and I 'm deeply grateful ; so much so , that I'll sew on these buttons myself , and save those tired fingers from another prick . ''
`` You sew them on ? ''
cried Rose , with her eyes wide open in amazement .
`` Wait a bit till I get my sewing tackle , and then you shall see what I can do . ''
`` Can he , really ? ''
asked Rose of Aunt Peace , as Uncle Alec marched off with a comical air of importance .
`` Oh , yes , I taught him years ago , before he went to sea ; and I suppose he has had to do things for himself , more or less , ever since ; so he has kept his hand in . ''
He evidently had , for he was soon back with a funny little work-bag , out of which he produced a thimble without a top ; and , having threaded his needle , he proceeded to sew on the buttons so handily that Rose was much impressed and amused .
`` I wonder if there is anything in the world that you can not do , '' she said , in a tone of respectful admiration .
`` There are one or two things that I am not up to yet , '' he answered , with a laugh in the corner of his eye , as he waxed his thread with a flourish .
`` I should like to know what ? ''
`` Bread and button-holes , ma'am . ''
It was a rainy Sunday afternoon , and four boys were trying to spend it quietly in the `` liberry , '' as Jamie called the room devoted to books and boys , at Aunt Jessie's .
Will and Geordie were sprawling on the sofa , deep in the adventures of the scapegraces and ragamuffins whose histories are now the fashion .
Archie lounged in the easy chair , surrounded by newspapers ; Charlie stood upon the rug , in an Englishman's favourite attitude , and , I regret to say , both were smoking cigars .
`` It is my opinion that this day will never come to an end , '' said Prince , with a yawn that nearly rent him asunder .
`` Read and improve your mind , my son , '' answered Archie , peering solemnly over the paper behind which he had been dozing .
`` Don't you preach , parson , but put on your boots and come out for a tramp , instead of mulling over the fire like a granny . ''
`` No , thank you , tramps in an easterly storm don't strike me as amusing . ''
There Archie stopped and held up his hand , for a pleasant voice was heard saying outside , `` Are the boys in the library , auntie ? ''
`` Yes , dear , and longing for sunshine ; so run in and make it for them , '' answered Mrs. Jessie .
`` It's Rose , '' and Archie threw his cigar into the fire .
`` What's that for ? ''
asked Charlie .
`` Gentlemen don't smoke before ladies . ''
`` True ; but I 'm not going to waste my weed , '' and Prince poked his into the empty inkstand that served them for an ash tray .
A gentle tap at the door was answered by a chorus of `` Come in , '' and Rose appeared , looking blooming and breezy with the chilly air .
`` If I disturb you , say so , and I'll go away , '' she began , pausing on the threshold with modest hesitation , for something in the elder boys ' faces excited her curiosity .
`` You never disturb us , cousin , '' said the smokers , while the readers tore themselves from the heroes of the bar-room and gutter long enough to nod affably to their guest .
As Rose bent to warm her hands , one end of Archie's cigar stuck out of the ashes , smoking furiously and smelling strongly .
`` Oh , you bad boys , how could you do it , to-day of all days ? ''
she said reproachfully .
`` Where's the harm ? ''
asked Archie .
`` You know as well as I do ; your mother doesn't like it , and it's a bad habit , for it wastes money and does you no good . ''
`` Fiddlesticks !
every man smokes , even Uncle Alec , whom you think so perfect , '' began Charlie , in his teasing way .
`` No , he doesn't !
He has given it up , and I know why , '' cried Rose eagerly .
`` Now I think of it , I haven't seen the old meerschaum since he came home .
Did he stop it on our account ? ''
asked Archie .
`` Yes , '' and Rose told the little scene on the seashore in the camping-out time .
Archie seemed much impressed , and said manfully , `` He won't have done that in vain so far as I 'm concerned .
I don't care a pin about smoking , so can give it up as easy as not , and I promise you I will .
I only do it now and then for fun . ''
`` You too ? ''
and Rose looked up at the bonny Prince , who never looked less bonny than at that moment , for he had resumed his cigar just to torment her .
Now Charlie cared as little as Archie about smoking , but it would not do to yield too soon : so he shook his head , gave a great puff , and said loftily , `` You women are always asking us to give up harmless little things just because you don't approve of them .
How would you like it if we did the same by you , miss ? ''
`` If I did harmful or silly things , I 'd thank you for telling me of them , and I 'd try to mend my ways , '' answered Rose heartily .
`` Well , now , we'll see if you mean what you say .
I'll give up smoking to please you , if you will give up something to please me , '' said Prince , seeing a good chance to lord it over the weaker vessel at small cost to himself .
`` I'll agree if it is as foolish as cigars . ''
`` Oh , it's ever so much sillier . ''
`` Then I promise ; what is it ? ''
and Rose quite trembled with anxiety to know which of her pet habits or possessions she must lose .
`` Give up your ear-rings , '' and Charlie laughed wickedly , sure that she would never hold to that bargain .
Rose uttered a cry and clapped both hands to her ears where the gold rings hung .
`` Oh , Charlie , wouldn't anything else do as well ?
I've been through so much teasing and trouble , I do want to enjoy my pretty ear-rings , for I can wear them now . ''
`` Wear as many as you like , and I'll smoke in peace , '' returned this bad boy .
`` Will nothing else satisfy you ? ''
imploringly .
`` Nothing , '' sternly .
Rose stood silent for a minute , thinking of something Aunt Jessie once said `` You have more influence over the boys than you know ; use it for their good , and I shall thank you all my life . ''
Here was a chance to do some good by sacrificing a little vanity of her own .
She felt it was right to do it , yet found it very hard , and asked wistfully , `` Do you mean never wear them , Charlie ? ''
`` Never , unless you want me to smoke . ''
`` I never do . ''
`` Then clinch the bargain . ''
He had no idea she would do it , and was much surprised when she took the dear rings from her ears , with a quick gesture , and held them out to him , saying , in a tone that made the colour come up to his brown cheek , it was so full of sweet good will , `` I care more for my cousins than for my ear-rings , so I promise , and I'll keep my word . ''
`` For shame , Prince !
let her wear her little danglers if she likes , and don't bargain about doing what you know is right , '' cried Archie , coming out of his grove of newspapers with an indignant bounce .
But Rose was bent on showing her aunt that she could use her influence for the boys ' good , and said steadily , `` It is fair , and I want it to be so , then you will believe I 'm in earnest .
Here , each of you wear one of these on your watch-guard to remind you .
I shall not forget , because very soon I can not wear ear-rings if I want to . ''
As she spoke , Rose offered a little ring to each cousin , and the boys , seeing how sincere she was , obeyed her .
When the pledges were safe , Rose stretched a hand to each , and the lads gave hers a hearty grip , half pleased and half ashamed of their part in the compact .
Just at that moment Dr. Alec and Mrs. Jessie came in .
`` What's this ?
Dancing Ladies ' Triumph on Sunday ? ''
exclaimed Uncle Alec , surveying the trio with surprise .
`` No , sir , it is the Anti-Tobacco League .
Will you join ? ''
said Charlie , while Rose slipped away to her aunt , and Archie buried both cigars behind the back log .
When the mystery was explained , the elders were well pleased , and Rose received a vote of thanks , which made her feel as if she had done a service to her country , as she had , for every boy who grows up free from bad habits bids fair to make a good citizen .
`` I wish Rose would drive a bargain with Will and Geordie also , for I think these books are as bad for the small boys as cigars for the large ones , '' said Mrs. Jessie , sitting down on the sofa between the readers , who politely curled up their legs to make room for her .
`` I thought they were all the fashion , '' answered Dr. Alec , settling in the big chair with Rose .
`` So is smoking , but it is harmful .
The writers of these popular stories intend to do good , I have no doubt , but it seems to me they fail because their motto is , ` Be smart , and you will be rich , ' instead of ` Be honest , and you will be happy . '
I do not judge hastily , Alec , for I have read a dozen , at least , of these stories , and , with much that is attractive to boys , I find a great deal to condemn in them , and other parents say the same when I ask them . ''
`` Now , Mum , that's too bad !
I like 'em tip-top .
This one is a regular screamer , '' cried Will .
`` They 're bully books , and I 'd like to know where's the harm , '' added Geordie .
`` You have just shown us one of the chief evils , and that is slang , '' answered their mother quickly .
`` Must have it , ma'am .
If these chaps talked all right , there 'd be no fun in 'em , '' protested Will .
`` A boot-black mustn't use good grammar , and a newsboy must swear a little , or he wouldn't be natural , '' explained Geordie , both boys ready to fight gallantly for their favourites .
`` But my sons are neither boot-blacks nor newsboys , and I object to hearing them use such words as ` screamer , ' ` bully , ' and ` buster . '
In fact , I fail to see the advantage of writing books about such people unless it is done in a very different way .
I can not think they will help to refine the ragamuffins if they read them , and I 'm sure they can do no good to the better class of boys , who through these books are introduced to police courts , counterfeiters ' dens , gambling houses , drinking saloons , and all sorts of low life . ''
`` Some of them are about first-rate boys , mother ; and they go to sea and study , and sail round the world , having great larks all the way . ''
`` I have read about them , Geordie , and though they are better than the others , I am not satisfied with these optical delusions , as I call them .
Now , I put it to you , boys , is it natural for lads from fifteen to eighteen to command ships , defeat pirates , outwit smugglers , and so cover themselves with glory , that Admiral Farragut invites them to dinner , saying , ` Noble boy , you are an honour to your country ! '
Or , if the hero is in the army , he has hair-breadth escapes and adventures enough in one small volume to turn his hair white , and in the end he goes to Washington at the express desire of the President or Commander-in-chief to be promoted to no end of stars and bars .
Even if the hero is merely an honest boy trying to get his living , he is not permitted to do so in a natural way , by hard work and years of patient effort , but is suddenly adopted by a millionaire whose pocket-book he has returned ; or a rich uncle appears from sea just in the nick of time ; or the remarkable boy earns a few dollars , speculates in pea-nuts or neckties , and grows rich so rapidly that Sinbad in the diamond valley is a pauper compared to him .
Isn't it so , boys ? ''
`` Well , the fellows in these books are mighty lucky , and very smart , I must say , '' answered Will , surveying an illustration on the open page before him , where a small but virtuous youth is upsetting a tipsy giant in a bar-room , and under it the elegant inscription , `` Dick Dauntless punches the head of Sam Soaker . ''
`` It gives boys such wrong ideas of life and business ; shows them so much evil and vulgarity that they need not know about , and makes the one success worth having a fortune , a lord's daughter , or some worldly honour , often not worth the time it takes to win .
It does seem to me that some one might write stories that should be lively , natural and helpful tales in which the English should be good , the morals pure , and the characters such as we can love in spite of the faults that all may have .
I can't bear to see such crowds of eager little fellows at the libraries reading such trash ; weak , when it is not wicked , and totally unfit to feed the hungry minds that feast on it for want of something better .
There !
my lecture is done ; now I should like to hear what you gentlemen have to say , '' and Aunt Jessie subsided with a pretty flush on the face that was full of motherly anxiety for her boys .
`` Tom Brown just suits mother , and me too , so I wish Mr. Hughes would write another story as good , '' said Archie .
`` You don't find things of this sort in Tom Brown ; yet these books are all in the Sunday-school libraries '' and Mrs. Jessie read the following paragraph from the book she had taken from Will's hand , '' ` In this place we saw a tooth of John the Baptist .
Ben said he could see locust and wild honey sticking to it .
I couldn't .
Perhaps John used a piece of the true cross for a tooth-pick . ' ''
`` A larky sort of a boy says that , Mum , and we skip the parts where they describe what they saw in the different countries , '' cried Will .
`` And those descriptions , taken mostly from guidebooks , I fancy , are the only parts of any real worth .
The scrapes of the bad boys make up the rest of the story , and it is for those you read these books , I think , '' answered his mother , stroking back the hair off the honest little face that looked rather abashed at this true statement of the case .
`` Anyway , mother , the ship part is useful , for we learn how to sail her , and by and by that will all come handy when we go to sea , '' put in Geordie .
`` Indeed , then you can explain this manoeuvre to me , of course , '' and Mrs. Jessie read from another page the following nautical paragraph , `` The wind is south-south-west , and we can have her up four points closer to the wind , and still be six points off the wind .
As she luffs up we shall man the fore and main sheets , slack on the weather , and haul on the lee braces . ''
`` I guess I could , if I wasn't afraid of uncle .
He knows so much more than I do , he 'd laugh , '' began Geordie , evidently puzzled by the question .
`` Ho , you know you can't , so why make believe ?
We don't understand half of the sea lingo , Mum , and I dare say it's all wrong , '' cried Will , suddenly going over to the enemy , to Geordie's great disgust .
`` I do wish the boys wouldn't talk to me as if I was a ship , '' said Rose , bringing forward a private grievance .
`` Coming home from church this morning , the wind blew me about , and Will called out , right in the street , ` Brail up the foresail , and take in the flying-jib , that will ease her . ' ''
The boys shouted at the plaintive tone in which Rose repeated the words that offended her , and Will vainly endeavoured to explain that he only meant to tell her to wrap her cloak closer , and tie a veil over the tempest-tossed feathers in her hat .
`` To tell the truth , if the boys must have slang , I can bear the ` sea lingo , ' as Will calls it , better than the other .
It afflicts me less to hear my sons talk about ` brailing up the foresail ' than doing as they ` darn please , ' and ` cut your cable ' is decidedly preferable to ` let her rip . '
I once made a rule that I would have no slang in the house .
I give it up now , for I can not keep it ; but I will not have rubbishy books ; so , Archie , please send these two after your cigars . ''
Mrs. Jessie held both the small boys fast with an arm round each neck , and when she took this base advantage of them they could only squirm with dismay .
`` Yes , right behind the back log , '' she continued , energetically .
`` There , my hearties , you like sea slang , so I'll give you a bit , now , I want you to promise not to read any more stuff for a month , and I'll agree to supply you with wholesome fare . ''
`` Oh , mother , not a single one ? ''
cried Will .
`` Couldn't we just finish those ? ''
pleaded Geordie .
`` The boys threw away half-smoked cigars ; and your books must go after them .
Surely you would not be outdone by the ` old fellows , ' as you call them , or be less obedient to little Mum than they were to Rose . ''
`` Course not !
Come on , Geordie , '' and Will took the vow like a hero .
His brother sighed and obeyed , but privately resolved to finish his story the minute the month was over .
`` You have laid out a hard task for yourself , Jessie , in trying to provide good reading for boys who have been living on sensation stories .
It will be like going from raspberry tarts to plain bread and butter ; but you will probably save them from a bilious fever , '' said Dr. Alec , much amused at the proceedings .
`` I remember hearing grandpa say that a love for good books was one of the best safeguards a man could have , '' began Archie , staring thoughtfully at the fine library before him .
`` Yes , but there's no time to read nowadays ; a fellow has to keep scratching round to make money or he's nobody , '' cut in Charlie , trying to look worldly-wise .
`` This love of money is the curse of America , and for the sake of it men will sell honour and honesty , till we don't know whom to trust , and it is only a genius like Agassiz who dares to say , ' I can not waste my time in getting rich , ' '' said Mrs. Jessie sadly .
`` Do you want us to be poor , mother ? ''
asked Archie , wondering .
`` No , dear , and you never need be , while you can use your hands ; but I am afraid of this thirst for wealth , and the temptations it brings .
O , my boys !
I tremble for the time when I must let you go , because I think it would break my heart to have you fail as so many fail .
It would be far easier to see you dead if it could be said of you as of Sumner ` No man dared offer him a bribe . ' ''
Mrs. Jessie was so earnest in her motherly anxiety that her voice faltered over the last words , and she hugged the yellow heads closer in her arms , as if she feared to let them leave that safe harbour for the great sea where so many little boats go down .
The younger lads nestled closer to her , and Archie said , in his quiet , resolute way , `` I can not promise to be an Agassiz or a Sumner , mother ; but I do promise to be an honest man , please God . ''
`` Then I 'm satisfied ! ''
and holding fast the hand he gave her , she sealed his promise with a kiss that had all a mother's hope and faith in it .
`` I don't see how they ever can be bad , she is so fond and proud of them , '' whispered Rose , quite touched by the little scene .
`` You must help her make them what they should be .
You have begun already , and when I see those rings where they are , my girl is prettier in my sight than if the biggest diamonds that ever twinkled shone in her ears , '' answered Dr. Alec , looking at her with approving eyes .
`` I 'm so glad you think I can do anything , for I perfectly ache to be useful ; everyone is so good to me , especially Aunt Jessie . ''
`` I think you are in a fair way to pay your debts , Rosy , for when girls give up their little vanities , and boys their small vices , and try to strengthen each other in well-doing , matters are going as they ought .
Work away , my dear , and help their mother keep these sons fit friends for an innocent creature like yourself ; they will be the manlier men for it , I can assure you . ''
`` Please , sir , I guess you 'd better step up right away , or it will be too late , for I heard Miss Rose say she knew you wouldn't like it , and she 'd never dare to let you see her . ''
Phebe said this as she popped her head into the study , where Dr. Alec sat reading a new book .
`` They are at it , are they ? ''
he said , looking up quickly , and giving himself a shake , as if ready for a battle of some sort .
`` Yes , sir , as hard as they can talk , and Miss Rose don't seem to know what to do , for the things are ever so stylish , and she looks elegant in 'em ; though I like her best in the old ones , '' answered Phebe .
`` You are a girl of sense .
I'll settle matters for Rosy , and you'll lend a hand .
Is everything ready in her room , and are you sure you understand how they go ? ''
`` Oh , yes , sir ; but they are so funny !
I know Miss Rose will think it's a joke , '' and Phebe laughed as if something tickled her immensely .
`` Never mind what she thinks so long as she obeys .
Tell her to do it for my sake , and she will find it the best joke she ever saw .
I expect to have a tough time of it , but we'll win yet , '' said the Doctor , as he marched upstairs with the book in his hand , and an odd smile on his face .
There was such a clatter of tongues in the sewing-room that no one heard his tap at the door , so he pushed it open and took an observation .
Aunt Plenty , Aunt Clara , and Aunt Jessie were all absorbed in gazing at Rose , who slowly revolved between them and the great mirror , in a full winter costume of the latest fashion .
`` Bless my heart !
worse even than I expected , '' thought the Doctor , with an inward groan , for , to his benighted eyes , the girl looked like a trussed fowl , and the fine new dress had neither grace , beauty , nor fitness to recommend it .
The suit was of two peculiar shades of blue , so arranged that patches of light and dark distracted the eye .
The upper skirt was tied so lightly back that it was impossible to take a long step , and the under one was so loaded with plaited frills that it `` wobbled '' no other word will express it ungracefully , both fore and aft .
A bunch of folds was gathered up just below the waist behind , and a great bow rode a-top .
A small jacket of the same material was adorned with a high ruff at the back , and laid well open over the breast , to display some lace and a locket .
Heavy fringes , bows , puffs , ruffles , and revers finished off the dress , making one's head ache to think of the amount of work wasted , for not a single graceful line struck the eye , and the beauty of the material was quite lost in the profusion of ornament .
A high velvet hat , audaciously turned up in front , with a bunch of pink roses and a sweeping plume , was cocked over one ear , and , with her curls braided into a club at the back of her neck , Rose's head looked more like that of a dashing young cavalier than a modest little girl's .
High-heeled boots tilted her well forward , a tiny muff pinioned her arms , and a spotted veil , tied so closely over her face that her eyelashes were rumpled by it , gave the last touch of absurdity to her appearance .
`` Now she looks like other girls , and as I like to see her , '' Mrs. Clara was saying , with an air of great satisfaction .
`` She does look like a fashionable young lady , but somehow I miss my little Rose , for children dressed like children in my day , '' answered Aunt Plenty , peering through her glasses with a troubled look , for she could not imagine the creature before her ever sitting in her lap , running to wait upon her , or making the house gay with a child's blithe presence .
`` Things have changed since your day , Aunt , and it takes time to get used to new ways .
But you , Jessie , surely like this costume better than the dowdy things Rose has been wearing all summer .
Now , be honest , and own you do , '' said Mrs. Clara , bent on being praised for her work .
`` Well , dear to be quite honest , then , I think it is frightful , '' answered Mrs. Jessie , with a candour that caused revolving Rose to stop in dismay .
`` Hear , hear , '' cried a deep voice , and with a general start the ladies became aware that the enemy was among them .
Rose blushed up to her hat brim , and stood , looking , as she felt , like a fool , while Mrs. Clara hastened to explain .
`` Of course , I don't expect you to like it , Alec , but I don't consider you a judge of what is proper and becoming for a young lady .
Therefore , I have taken the liberty of providing a pretty street suit for Rose .
She need not wear it if you object , for I know we promised to let you do what you liked with the poor dear for a year . ''
`` It is a street costume , is it ? ''
asked the Doctor , mildly .
`` Do you know , I never should have guessed that it was meant for winter weather and brisk locomotion .
Take a turn , Rosy , and let me see all its beauties and advantages . ''
Rose tried to walk off with her usual free tread , but the under-skirt got in her way , the over-skirt was so tight she could not take a long step , and her boots made it impossible to carry herself perfectly erect .
`` I haven't got used to it yet , '' she said , petulantly , kicking at her train , as she turned to toddle back again .
`` Suppose a mad dog or a runaway horse was after you , could you get out of the way without upsetting , Colonel , '' asked the Doctor , with a twinkle in the eyes that were fixed on the rakish hat .
`` Don't think I could , but I'll try , '' and Rose made a rush across the room .
Her boot-heels caught on a rug , several strings broke , her hat tipped over her eyes , and she plunged promiscuously into a chair , where she sat laughing so infectiously that all but Mrs. Clara joined in her mirth .
`` I should say that a walking suit in which one could not walk , and a winter suit which exposes the throat , head , and feet to cold and damp , was rather a failure , Clara , especially as it has no beauty to reconcile one to its utter unfitness , '' said Dr. Alec , as he helped Rose undo her veil , adding , in a low tone , `` Nice thing for the eyes ; you'll soon see spots when it's off as well as when it's on , and , by and by , be a case for an oculist . ''
`` No beauty ! ''
cried Mrs. Clara , warmly , `` Now , that is just a man's blindness .
This is the best of silk and camel's hair , real ostrich feathers , and an expensive ermine muff .
What could be in better taste , or more proper for a young girl ? ''
`` I'll shew you , if Rose will go to her room and oblige me by putting on what she finds there , '' answered the Doctor , with unexpected readiness .
`` Alec , if it is a Bloomer , I shall protest .
I've been expecting it , but I know I can not bear to see that pretty child sacrificed to your wild ideas of health .
Tell me it isn't a Bloomer ! ''
and Mrs. Clara clasped her hands imploringly .
`` It is not . ''
`` Thank Heaven ! ''
and she resigned herself with a sigh of relief , adding plaintively , `` I did hope you 'd accept my suit , for poor Rose has been afflicted with frightful clothes long enough to spoil the taste of any girl . ''
`` You talk of my afflicting the child , and then make a helpless guy like that of her ! ''
answered the Doctor , pointing to the little fashion plate that was scuttling out of sight as fast as it could go .
He closed the door with a shrug , but before anyone could speak , his quick eye fell upon an object which caused him to frown , and demand in an indignant tone , `` After all I have said , were you really going to tempt my girl with those abominable things ? ''
`` I thought we put them away when she wouldn't wear them , '' murmured Mrs. Clara , whisking a little pair of corsets out of sight with guilty haste .
`` I only brought them to try , for Rose is growing stout , and will have no figure if it is not attended to soon , '' she added , with an air of calm conviction that roused the Doctor still more , for this was one of his especial abominations .
`` Growing stout !
Yes , thank Heaven , she is , and shall continue to do it , for Nature knows how to mould a woman better than any corset-maker , and I won't have her interfered with .
My dear Clara , have you lost your senses that you can for a moment dream of putting a growing girl into an instrument of torture like this ? ''
and with a sudden gesture he plucked forth the offending corsets from under the sofa cushion , and held them out with the expression one would wear on beholding the thumbscrews or the rack of ancient times .
`` Don't be absurd , Alec .
There is no torture about it , for tight lacing is out of fashion , and we have nice , sensible things nowadays .
Everyone wears them ; even babies have stiffened waists to support their weak little backs , '' began Mrs. Clara , rushing to the defence of the pet delusion of most women .
`` I know it , and so the poor little souls have weak backs all their days , as their mothers had before them .
It is vain to argue the matter , and I won't try , but I wish to state , once for all , that if I ever see a pair of corsets near Rose , I'll put them in the fire , and you may send the bill to me . ''
As he spoke the corsets were on their way to destruction , but Mrs. Jessie caught his arm , exclaiming merrily , `` Don't burn them , for mercy sake , Alec ; they are full of whalebones , and will make a dreadful odour .
Give them to me .
I'll see that they do no harm . ''
`` Whalebones , indeed !
A regular fence of them , and metal gate-posts in front .
As if our own bones were not enough , if we 'd give them a chance to do their duty , '' growled the Doctor , yielding up the bone of contention with a last shake of contempt .
Then his face cleared suddenly , and he held up his finger , saying , with a smile , `` Hear those girls laugh ; cramped lungs could not make hearty music like that . ''
Peals of laughter issued from Rose's room , and smiles involuntarily touched the lips of those who listened to the happy sound .
`` Some new prank of yours , Alec ? ''
asked Aunt Plenty , indulgently , for she had come to believe in most of her nephew's odd notions , because they seemed to work so well .
`` Yes , ma'am , my last , and I hope you will like it .
I discovered what Clara was at , and got my rival suit ready for to-day .
I 'm not going to ` afflict ' Rose , but let her choose , and if I 'm not entirely mistaken , she will like my rig best .
While we wait I'll explain , and then you will appreciate the general effect better .
I got hold of this little book , and was struck with its good sense and good taste , for it suggests a way to clothe women both healthfully and handsomely , and that is a great point .
It begins at the foundations , as you will see if you will look at these pictures , and I should think women would rejoice at this lightening of their burdens . ''
As he spoke , the Doctor laid the book before Aunt Plenty , who obediently brought her spectacles to bear upon the illustrations , and after a long look exclaimed , with a scandalised face , `` Mercy on us , these things are like the night-drawers Jamie wears !
You don't mean to say you want Rose to come out in this costume ?
It's not proper , and I won't consent to it ! ''
`` I do mean it , and I 'm sure my sensible aunt will consent when she understands that these well I'll call them by an Indian name , and say pajamas are for underwear , and Rose can have as pretty frocks as she likes outside .
These two suits of flannel , each in one piece from head to foot , with a skirt or so hung on this easily-fitting waist , will keep the child warm without burdening her with belts , and gathers , and buckles , and bunches round the waist , and leave free the muscles that need plenty of room to work in .
She shall never have the back-ache if I can help it , nor the long list of ills you dear women think you can not escape . ''
`` I don't consider it modest , and I 'm sure Rose will be shocked at it , '' began Mrs. Clara , but stopped suddenly , as Rose appeared in the doorway , not looking shocked a bit .
`` Come on , my hygienic model , and let us see you , '' said her uncle , with an approving glance , as she walked in , looking so mischievously merry , that it was evident she enjoyed the joke .
`` Well , I don't see anything remarkable .
That is a neat , plain suit ; the materials are good , and it's not unbecoming , if you want her to look like a little school-girl ; but it has not a particle of style , and no one would ever give it a second glance , '' said Mrs. Clara , feeling that her last remark condemned the whole thing .
`` Exactly what I want , '' answered the provoking Doctor , rubbing his hands with a satisfied air .
`` Rosy looks now like what she is , a modest little girl , who does not want to be stared at .
I think she would get a glance of approval , though , from people who like sense and simplicity rather than fuss and feathers .
Revolve , my Hebe , and let me refresh my eyes by the sight of you . ''
There was very little to see , however , only a pretty Gabrielle dress , of a soft warm shade of brown , coming to the tops of a trim pair of boots with low heels .
A seal-skin sack , cap , and mittens , with a glimpse of scarlet at the throat , and the pretty curls tied up with a bright velvet of the same colour , completed the external adornment , making her look like a robin redbreast wintry , yet warm .
`` How do you like it , Rosy ? ''
asked the Doctor , feeling that her opinion was more important to the success of his new idea than that of all the aunts on the hill .
`` I feel very odd and light , but I 'm warm as a toast , and nothing seems to be in my way , '' answered Rose , with a skip which displayed shapely gaiters on legs that now might be as free and active as a boy's under the modest skirts of the girl .
`` You can run away from the mad dogs , and walk off at a smart pace without tumbling on your nose , now , I fancy ? ''
`` Yes , uncle !
suppose the dog coming , I just hop over a wall so and when I walk of a cold day , I go like this . ''
Entering fully into the spirit of the thing , Rose swung herself over the high back of the sofa as easily as one of her cousins , and then went down the long hall as if her stout boots were related to the famous seven-leaguers .
`` There !
you see how it will be ; dress her in that boyish way and she will act like a boy .
I do hate all these inventions of strong-minded women ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Clara , as Rose came back at a run .
`` Ah , but you see some of these sensible inventions come from the brain of a fashionable modiste , who will make you more lovely , or what you value more ` stylish ' outside and comfortable within .
Mrs. Van Tassel has been to Madame Stone , and is wearing a full suit of this sort .
Van himself told me , when I asked how she was , that she had given up lying on the sofa , and was going about in a most astonishing way , considering her feeble health . ''
`` You don't say so !
Let me see that book a moment , '' and Aunt Clara examined the new patterns with a more respectful air , for if the elegant Mrs. Van Tassel wore these `` dreadful things '' it would never do to be left behind , in spite of her prejudices .
Dr. Alec looked at Mrs. Jessie , and both smiled , for `` little Mum '' had been in the secret , and enjoyed it mightily .
`` I thought that would settle it , '' he said with a nod .
`` I didn't wait for Mrs. Van to lead the way , and for once in my life I have adopted a new fashion before Clara .
My freedom suit is ordered , and you may see me playing tag with Rose and the boys before long , '' answered Mrs. Jessie , nodding back at him .
Meantime Aunt Plenty was examining Rose's costume , for the hat and sack were off , and the girl was eagerly explaining the new under-garments .
`` See , auntie , all nice scarlet flannel , and a gay little petticoat , and long stockings , oh , so warm !
Phebe and I nearly died laughing when I put this rig on , but I like it ever so much .
The dress is so comfortable , and doesn't need any belt or sash , and I can sit without rumpling any trimming , that's such a comfort !
I like to be tidy , and so , when I wear fussed-up things , I 'm thinking of my clothes all the time , and that's tiresome .
Do say you like it .
I resolved I would , just to please uncle , for he does know more about health than anyone else , I 'm sure , and I 'd wear a bag if he asked me to do it . ''
`` I don't ask that , Rose , but I wish you 'd weigh and compare the two suits , and then choose which seems best .
I leave it to your own commonsense , '' answered Dr. Alec , feeling pretty sure he had won .
`` Why , I take this one , of course , uncle .
The other is fashionable , and yes I must say I think it's pretty but it's very heavy , and I should have to go round like a walking doll if I wore it .
I 'm much obliged to auntie , but I'll keep this , please . ''
Rose spoke gently but decidedly , though there was a look of regret when her eye fell on the other suit which Phebe had brought in ; and it was very natural to like to look as other girls did .
Aunt Clara sighed ; Uncle Alec smiled , and said heartily , `` Thank you , dear ; now read this book and you will understand why I ask it of you .
Then , if you like , I'll give you a new lesson ; you asked for one yesterday , and this is more necessary than French or housekeeping . ''
`` Oh , what ? ''
and Rose caught up the book which Mrs. Clara had thrown down with a disgusted look .
Though Dr. Alec was forty , the boyish love of teasing was not yet dead in him , and , being much elated at his victory , he could not resist the temptation of shocking Mrs. Clara by suggesting dreadful possibilities , so he answered , half in earnest , half in jest , `` Physiology , Rose .
Wouldn't you like to be a little medical student , with Uncle Doctor for teacher , and be ready to take up his practice when he has to stop ?
If you agree , I'll hunt up my old skeleton to-morrow . ''
That was too much for Aunt Clara , and she hastily departed , with her mind in a sad state of perturbation about Mrs. Van Tassel's new costume and Rose's new study .
Rose accepted her uncle's offer , as Aunt Myra discovered two or three days later .
Coming in for an early call , and hearing voices in the study , she opened the door , gave a cry and shut it quickly , looking a good deal startled .
The Doctor appeared in a moment , and begged to know what the matter was .
`` How can you ask when that long box looks so like a coffin I thought it was one , and that dreadful thing stared me in the face as I opened the door , '' answered Mrs. Myra , pointing to the skeleton that hung from the chandelier cheerfully grinning at all beholders .
`` This is a medical college where women are freely admitted , so walk in , madam , and join the class if you'll do me the honour , '' said the Doctor , waving her forward with his politest bow .
`` Do , auntie , it's perfectly splendid , '' cried Rose's voice , and Rose's blooming face was seen behind the ribs of the skeleton , smiling and nodding in the gayest possible manner .
`` What are you doing , child ? ''
demanded Aunt Myra , dropping into a chair and staring about her .
`` Oh , I 'm learning bones to-day , and I like it so much .
There are twelve ribs , you know , and the two lower ones are called floating ribs , because they are not fastened to the breastbone .
That's why they go in so easily if you lace tight and squeeze the lungs and heart in the let me see , what was that big word oh , I know thoracic cavity , '' and Rose beamed with pride as she aired her little bit of knowledge .
`` Do you think that is a good sort of thing for her to be poking over ?
She is a nervous child , and I 'm afraid it will be bad for her , '' said Aunt Myra , watching Rose as she counted vertebrae , and waggled a hip-joint in its socket with an inquiring expression .
`` An excellent study , for she enjoys it , and I mean to teach her how to manage her nerves so that they won't be a curse to her , as many a woman's become through ignorance or want of thought .
To make a mystery or terror of these things is a mistake , and I mean Rose shall understand and respect her body so well that she won't dare to trifle with it as most women do . ''
`` And she really likes it ? ''
`` Very much , auntie !
It's all so wonderful , and so nicely planned , you can hardly believe what you see .
Just think , there are 600,000,000 air cells in one pair of lungs , and 2,000 pores to a square inch of surface ; so you see what quantities of air we must have , and what care we should take of our skin so all the little doors will open and shut right .
And brains , auntie , you've no idea how curious they are ; I haven't got to them yet , but I long to , and uncle is going to show me a manikin that you can take to pieces .
Just think how nice it will be to see all the organs in their places ; I only wish they could be made to work as ours do . ''
It was funny to see Aunt Myra's face as Rose stood before her talking rapidly with one hand laid in the friendliest manner on the skeleton's shoulder .
Every word both the Doctor and Rose uttered hit the good lady in her weakest spot , and as she looked and listened a long array of bottles and pill-boxes rose up before her , reproaching her with the `` ignorance and want of thought '' that made her what she was , a nervous , dyspeptic , unhappy old woman .
`` Well , I don't know but you may be right , Alec , only I wouldn't carry it too far .
Women don't need much of this sort of knowledge , and are not fit for it .
I couldn't bear to touch that ugly thing , and it gives me the creeps to hear about ` organs , ' '' said Aunt Myra , with a sigh and her hand on her side .
`` Wouldn't it be a comfort to know that your liver was on the right side , auntie , and not on the left ! ''
asked Rose with a naughty laugh in her eyes , for she had lately learnt that Aunt Myra's liver complaint was not in the proper place .
`` It's a dying world , child , and it don't much matter where the pain is , for sooner or later we all drop off and are seen no more , '' was Aunt Myra's cheerful reply .
`` Well , I intend to know what kills me if I can , and meantime , I 'm going to enjoy myself in spite of a dying world .
I wish you 'd do so too , and come and study with uncle , it would do you good , I 'm sure , '' and Rose went back to counting vertebrae with such a happy face , that Aunt Myra had not the heart to say a word to dampen her ardour .
`` Perhaps it's as well to let her do what she likes the little while she is with us .
But pray be careful of her , Alec , and not allow her to overwork , '' she whispered as she went out .
`` That's exactly what I 'm trying to do , ma'am , and rather a hard job I find it , '' he added , as he shut the door , for the dear aunts were dreadfully in his way sometimes .
Half an hour later came another interruption in the shape of Mac , who announced his arrival by the brief but elegant remark , `` Hullo !
what new game is this ? ''
Rose explained , Mac gave a long whistle of surprise , and then took a promenade round the skeleton , observing gravely , `` Brother Bones looks very jolly , but I can't say much for his beauty . ''
`` You mustn't make fun of him , for he's a good old fellow , and you 'd be just as ugly if your flesh was off , '' said Rose , defending her new friend with warmth .
`` I dare say , so I'll keep my flesh on , thank you .
You are so busy you can't read to a fellow , I suppose ? ''
asked Mac , whose eyes were better , but still too weak for books .
`` Don't you want to come and join my class ?
Uncle explains it all to us , and you can take a look at the plates as they come along .
We'll give up bones today and have eyes instead ; that will be more interesting to you , '' added Rose , seeing no ardent thirst for physiological information in his face .
`` Rose , we must not fly about from one thing to another in this way , '' began Dr. Alec , but she whispered quickly , with a nod towards Mac , whose goggles were turned wistfully in the direction of the forbidden books , `` He's blue to-day , and we must amuse him ; give a little lecture on eyes , and it will do him good .
No matter about me , uncle . ''
`` Very well ; the class will please be seated , '' and the Doctor gave a sounding rap on the table .
`` Come , sit by me , dear , then we can both see the pictures ; and if your head gets tired you can lie down , '' said Rose , generously opening her little college to a brother , and kindly providing for the weaknesses that all humanity is subject to .
Side by side they sat and listened to a very simple explanation of the mechanism of the eye , finding it as wonderful as a fairy tale , for fine plates illustrated it , and a very willing teacher did his best to make the lesson pleasant .
`` Jove !
if I 'd known what mischief I was doing to that mighty delicate machine of mine , you wouldn't have caught me reading by firelight , or studying with a glare of sunshine on my book , '' said Mac , peering solemnly at a magnified eye-ball ; then , pushing it away , he added indignantly , `` Why isn't a fellow taught all about his works , and how to manage 'em , and not left to go blundering into all sorts of worries ?
Telling him after he's down isn't much use , for then he's found it out himself and won't thank you . ''
`` Ah , Mac , that's just what I keep lecturing about , and people won't listen .
You lads need that sort of knowledge so much , and fathers and mothers ought to be able to give it to you .
Few of them are able , and so we all go blundering , as you say .
Less Greek and Latin and more knowledge of the laws of health for my boys , if I had them .
Mathematics are all very well , but morals are better , and I wish , how I wish that I could help teachers and parents to feel it as they ought . ''
`` Some do ; Aunt Jessie and her boys have capital talks , and I wish we could ; but mother's so busy with her housekeeping , and father with his business , there never seems to be any time for that sort of thing ; even if there was , it don't seem as if it would be easy to talk to them , because we've never got into the way of it , you know . ''
Poor Mac was right there , and expressed a want that many a boy and girl feels .
Fathers and mothers are too absorbed in business and housekeeping to study their children , and cherish that sweet and natural confidence which is a child's surest safeguard , and a parent's subtlest power .
So the young hearts hide trouble or temptation till the harm is done , and mutual regret comes too late .
Happy the boys and girls who tell all things freely to father or mother , sure of pity , help , and pardon ; and thrice happy the parents who , out of their own experience , and by their own virtues , can teach and uplift the souls for which they are responsible .
This longing stirred in the hearts of Rose and Mac , and by a natural impulse both turned to Dr. Alec , for in this queer world of ours , fatherly and motherly hearts often beat warm and wise in the breasts of bachelor uncles and maiden aunts ; and it is my private opinion that these worthy creatures are a beautiful provision of nature for the cherishing of other people's children .
They certainly get great comfort out of it , and receive much innocent affection that otherwise would be lost .
Dr. Alec was one of these , and his big heart had room for every one of the eight cousins , especially orphaned Rose and afflicted Mac ; so , when the boy uttered that unconscious reproach to his parents , and Rose added with a sigh , `` It must be beautiful to have a mother ! ''
the good Doctor yearned over them , and , shutting his book with a decided slam , said in that cordial voice of his , `` Now , look here , children , you just come and tell me all your worries , and with God's help , I'll settle them for you .
That is what I 'm here for , I believe , and it will be a great happiness to me if you can trust me . ''
`` We can , uncle , and we will ! ''
both answered , with a heartiness that gratified him much .
`` Good !
now school is dismissed , and I advise you to go and refresh your 600,000,000 air cells by a brisk run in the garden .
Come again whenever you like , Mac , and we'll teach you all we can about your ` works , ' as you call them , so you can keep them running smoothly . ''
`` We'll come , sir , much obliged , '' and the class in physiology went out to walk .
Mac did come again , glad to find something he could study in spite of his weak eyes , and learned much that was of more value than anything his school had ever taught him .
Of course , the other lads made great fun of the whole thing , and plagued Dr. Alec's students half out of their lives .
But they kept on persistently , and one day something happened which made the other fellows behave themselves for ever after .
It was a holiday , and Rose up in her room thought she heard the voices of her cousins , so she ran down to welcome them , but found no one there .
`` Never mind , they will be here soon , and then we'll have a frolic , '' she said to herself , and thinking she had been mistaken she went into the study to wait .
She was lounging over the table looking at a map when an odd noise caught her ear .
A gentle tapping somewhere , and following the sound it seemed to come from the inside of the long case in which the skeleton lived when not professionally engaged .
This case stood upright in a niche between two book-cases at the back of the room , a darkish corner , where Brother Bones , as the boys would call him , was out of the way .
As Rose stood looking in that direction , and wondering if a rat had got shut in , the door of the case swung slowly open , and with a great start she saw a bony arm lifted , and a bony finger beckon to her .
For a minute she was frightened , and ran to the study door with a fluttering heart , but just as she touched the handle a queer , stifled sort of giggle made her stop short and turn red with anger .
She paused an instant to collect herself , and then went softly toward the bony beckoner .
A nearer look revealed black threads tied to the arm and fingers , the ends of threads disappearing through holes bored in the back of the case .
Peeping into the dark recess , she also caught sight of the tip of an elbow covered with a rough gray cloth which she knew very well .
Quick as a flash she understood the joke , her fear vanished , and with a wicked smile , she whipped out her scissors , cut the threads , and the bony arm dropped with a rattle .
Before she could say , `` Come out , Charlie , and let my skeleton alone , '' a sudden irruption of boys , all in a high state of tickle , proclaimed to the hidden rogue that his joke was a failure .
`` I told him not to do it , because it might give you a start , '' explained Archie , emerging from the closet .
`` I had a smelling bottle all ready if she fainted away , '' added Steve , popping up from behind the great chair .
`` It's too bad of you not to squawk and run ; we depended on it , it's such fun to howl after you , '' said Will and Geordie , rolling out from under the sofa in a promiscuous heap .
`` You are getting altogether too strong-minded , Rose ; most girls would have been in a jolly twitter to see this old fellow waggling his finger at them , '' complained Charlie , squeezing out from his tight quarters , dusty and disgusted .
`` I 'm used to your pranks now , so I 'm always on the watch and prepared .
But I won't have Brother Bones made fun of .
I know uncle wouldn't like it , so please don't , '' began Rose just as Dr. Alec came in , and , seeing the state of the case at a glance , he said quietly , `` Hear how I got that skeleton , and then I 'm sure you will treat it with respect . ''
The boys settled down at once on any article of furniture that was nearest and listened dutifully .
`` Years ago , when I was in the hospital , a poor fellow was brought there with a rare and very painful disease .
There was no hope for him , but we did our best , and he was so grateful that when he died he left us his body that we might discover the mysteries of his complaint , and so be able to help others afflicted in the same way .
It did do good , and his brave patience made us remember him long after he was gone .
He thought I had been kind to him , and said to a fellow-student of mine , ` Tell the Doctor I lave him me bones , for I've nothing else in the wide world , and I'll nos be wanting 'em at all , at all , when the great pain hat kilt me entirely . '
So that is how they came to be mine , and why I've kept them carefully , for , though only a poor , ignorant fellow , Mike Nolan did what he could to help others , and prove his gratitude to those who tried to help him . ''
As Dr. Alec paused , Archie closed the door of the case as respectfully as if the mummy of an Egyptian king was inside ; Will and Geordie looked solemnly at one another , evidently much impressed , and Charlie pensively remarked from the coal-hod where he sat , `` I've often heard of a skeleton in the house , but I think few people have one as useful and as interesting as ours . ''
Rose made Phebe promise that she would bring her stocking into the `` Bower , '' as she called her pretty room , on Christmas morning , because that first delicious rummage loses half its charm if two little night-caps at least do not meet over the treasures , and two happy voices Oh and Ah together .
So when Rose opened her eyes that day they fell upon faithful Phebe , rolled up in a shawl , sitting on the rug before a blazing fire , with her untouched stocking laid beside her .
`` Merry Christmas ! ''
cried the little mistress smiling gaily .
`` Merry Christmas ! ''
answered the little maid , so heartily that it did one good to hear her .
`` Bring the stockings right away , Phebe , and let's see what we've got , '' said Rose , sitting up among the pillows , and looking as eager as a child .
A pair of long knobby hose were laid out upon the coverlet , and their contents examined with delight , though each knew every blessed thing that had been put into the other's stocking .
Never mind what they were ; it is evident that they were quite satisfactory , for as Rose leaned back , she said , with a luxurious sigh of satisfaction , `` Now , I believe I've got everything in the world that I want , '' and Phebe answered , smiling over a lapful of treasures , `` This is the most splendid Christmas I ever had since I was born . ''
Then she added with an important air , `` Do wish for something else , because I happen to know of two more presents outside the door this minute . ''
`` Oh , me , what richness ! ''
cried Rose , much excited .
`` I used to wish for a pair of glass slippers like Cinderella's , but as I can't have them , I really don't know what to ask for . ''
Phebe clapped her hands as she skipped off the bed and ran to the door , saying merrily , `` One of them is for your feet , anyway .
I don't know what you'll say to the other , but I think it's elegant . ''
So did Rose , when a shining pair of skates and a fine sled appeared .
`` Uncle sent those ; I know he did ; and , now I see them , I remember that I did want to skate and coast .
Isn't it a beauty ?
See !
they fit nicely , '' and , sitting on the new sled , Rose tried a skate on her little bare foot , while Phebe stood by admiring the pretty tableau .
`` Now we must hurry and get dressed , for there is a deal to do to-day , and I want to get through in time to try my sled before dinner . ''
`` Gracious me , and I ought to be dusting my parlors this blessed minute ! ''
and mistress and maid separated with such happy faces that anyone would have known what day it was without being told .
`` Birnam Wood has come to Dunsinane , Rosy , '' said Dr. Alec , as he left the breakfast table to open the door for a procession of holly , hemlock , and cedar boughs that came marching up the steps .
Snowballs and `` Merry Christmases ! ''
flew about pretty briskly for several minutes ; then all fell to work trimming the old house , for the family always dined together there on that day .
`` I rode miles and mileses , as Ben says , to get this fine bit , and I 'm going to hang it there as the last touch to the rig-a-madooning , '' said Charlie , as he fastened a dull green branch to the chandelier in the front parlor .
`` It isn't very pretty , '' said Rose , who was trimming the chimney-piece with glossy holly sprays .
`` Never mind that , it's mistletoe , and anyone who stands under it will get kissed whether they like it or not .
Now's your time , ladies , '' answered the saucy Prince , keeping his place and looking sentimentally at the girls , who retired precipitately from the dangerous spot .
`` You won't catch me , '' said Rose , with great dignity .
`` See if I don't ! ''
`` I've got my eye on Phebe , '' observed Will , in a patronising tone that made them all laugh .
`` Bless the dear ; I shan't mind it a bit , '' answered Phebe , with such a maternal air that Will's budding gallantry was chilled to death .
`` Oh , the mistletoe bough , '' sang Rose .
`` Oh , the mistletoe bough ! ''
echoed all the boys , and the teasing ended in the plaintive ballad they all liked so well .
There was plenty of time to try the new skates before dinner , and then Rose took her first lesson on the little bay , which seemed to have frozen over for that express purpose .
She found tumbling down and getting up again warm work for a time , but with six boys to teach her , she managed at last to stand alone ; and , satisfied with that success , she refreshed herself with a dozen grand coasts on the Amazon , as her sled was called .
`` Ah , that fatal colour !
it breaks my heart to see it , '' croaked Aunt Myra , as Rose came down a little late , with cheeks almost as ruddy as the holly berries on the wall , and every curl as smooth as Phebe's careful hands could make it .
`` I 'm glad to see that Alec allows the poor child to make herself pretty in spite of his absurd notions , '' added Aunt Clara , taking infinite satisfaction in the fact that Rose's blue silk dress had three frills on it .
`` She's a very intelligent child , and has a nice little manner of her own , '' observed Aunt Jane , with unusual affability ; for Rose had just handed Mac a screen to guard his eyes from the brilliant fire .
`` If I had a daughter like that to show my Jem when he gets home , I should be a very proud and happy woman , '' thought Aunt Jessie , and then reproached herself for not being perfectly satisfied with her four brave lads .
Aunt Plenty was too absorbed in the dinner to have an eye for anything else ; if she had not been , she would have seen what an effect her new cap produced upon the boys .
The good lady owned that she did `` love a dressy cap , '' and on this occasion her head gear was magnificent ; for the towering structure of lace was adorned with buff ribbons to such an extent that it looked as if a flock of yellow butterflies had settled on her dear old head .
When she trotted about the rooms the ruches quivered , the little bows all stood erect , and the streamers waved in the breeze so comically that it was absolutely necessary for Archie to smother the Brats in the curtains till they had had their first laugh out .
Uncle Mac had brought Fun See to dinner , and it was a mercy he did , for the elder lads found a vent for their merriment in joking the young Chinaman on his improved appearance .
He was in American costume now , with a cropped head , and spoke remarkably good English after six months at school ; but , for all that , his yellow face and beady eyes made a curious contrast to the blonde Campbells all about him .
Will called him the `` Typhoon , '' meaning Tycoon , and the name stuck to him to his great disgust .
Aunt Peace was brought down and set in the chair of state at table , for she never failed to join the family on this day , and sat smiling at them all , `` like an embodiment of Peace on earth , '' Uncle Alec said , as he took his place beside her , while Uncle Mac supported Aunt Plenty at the other end .
`` I ate hardly any breakfast , and I've done everything I know to make myself extra hungry , but I really don't think I can eat straight through , unless I burst my buttons off , '' whispered Geordie to Will , as he surveyed the bounteous stores before him with a hopeless sigh .
`` A fellow never knows what he can do till he tries , '' answered Will , attacking his heaped-up plate with an evident intention of doing his duty like a man .
Everybody knows what a Christmas dinner is , so we need waste no words in describing this one , but hasten at once to tell what happened at the end of it .
The end , by the way , was so long in coming that the gas was lighted before dessert was over , for a snow flurry had come on and the wintry daylight faded fast .
But that only made it all the jollier in the warm , bright rooms , full of happy souls .
Everyone was very merry , but Archie seemed particularly uplifted so much so , that Charlie confided to Rose that he was afraid the Chief had been at the decanters .
Rose indignantly denied the insinuation , for when healths were drunk in the good old-fashioned way to suit the elders , she had observed that Aunt Jessie's boys filled their glasses with water , and had done the same herself in spite of the Prince's jokes about `` the rosy . ''
But Archie certainly was unusually excited , and when someone remembered that it was the anniversary of Uncle Jem's wedding , and wished he was there to make a speech , his son electrified the family by trying to do it for him .
It was rather incoherent and flowery , as maiden speeches are apt to be , but the end was considered superb ; for , turning to his mother with a queer little choke in his voice , he said that she `` deserved to be blessed with peace and plenty , to be crowned with roses and lads ' - love , and to receive the cargo of happiness sailing home to her in spite of wind or tide to add another Jem to the family jewels . ''
That allusion to the Captain , now on his return trip , made Mrs. Jessie sob in her napkin , and set the boys cheering .
Then , as if that was not sensation enough , Archie suddenly dashed out of the room , as if he had lost his wits .
`` Too bashful to stay and be praised , '' began Charlie , excusing the peculiarities of his chief as in duty bound .
`` Phebe beckoned to him ; I saw her , '' cried Rose , staring hard at the door .
`` Is it more presents coming ? ''
asked Jamie , just as his brother re-appeared , looking more excited than ever .
`` Yes ; a present for mother , and here it is ! ''
roared Archie , flinging wide the door to let in a tall man , who cried out , `` Where's my little woman ?
The first kiss for her , then the rest may come on as fast as they like . ''
Before the words were out of his mouth , Mrs. Jessie was half-hidden under his rough great-coat , and four boys were prancing about him clamouring for their turn .
Of course , there was a joyful tumult for a time , during which Rose slipped into the window recess and watched what went on , as if it were a chapter in a Christmas story .
It was good to see bluff Uncle Jem look proudly at his tall son , and fondly hug the little ones .
It was better still to see him shake his brothers ' hands as if he would never leave off , and kiss all the sisters in a way that made even solemn Aunt Myra brighten up for a minute .
But it was best of all to see him finally established in grandfather's chair , with his `` little woman '' beside him , his three youngest boys in his lap , and Archie hovering over him like a large-sized cherub .
That really was , as Charlie said , `` A landscape to do one's heart good . ''
`` All hearty and all here , thank God ! ''
said Captain Jem in the first pause that came , as he looked about him with a grateful face .
`` All but Rose , '' answered loyal little Jamie , remembering the absent .
`` Faith , I forgot the child !
Where is George's little girl ? ''
asked the Captain , who had not seen her since she was a baby .
`` You 'd better say Alec's great girl , '' said Uncle Mac , who professed to be madly jealous of his brother .
`` Here I am , sir , '' and Rose appeared from behind the curtains , looking as if she had rather have stayed there .
`` Saint George Germain , how the mite has grown ! ''
cried Captain Jem , as he tumbled the boys out of his lap , and rose to greet the tall girl , like a gentleman as he was .
But , somehow , when he shook her hand it looked so small in his big one , and her face reminded him so strongly of his dead brother , that he was not satisfied with so cold a welcome , and with a sudden softening of the keen eyes he took her up in his arms , whispering , with a rough cheek against her smooth one , `` God bless you , child !
forgive me if I forgot you for a minute , and be sure that not one of your kinsfolk is happier to see you here than Uncle Jem . ''
That made it all right ; and when he set her down , Rose's face was so bright it was evident that some spell had been used to banish the feeling of neglect that had kept her moping behind the curtain so long .
That everyone sat round and heard all about the voyage home how the Captain had set his heart on getting there in time to keep Christmas ; how everything had conspired to thwart his plan ; and how , at the very last minute , he had managed to do it , and had sent a telegram to Archie , bidding him keep the secret , and be ready for his father at any moment , for the ship got into another port , and he might be late .
Then Archie told how that telegram had burnt in his pocket all dinner-time ; how he had to take Phebe into his confidence , and how clever she was to keep the Captain back till the speech was over and he could come in with effect .
The elders would have sat and talked all the evening , but the young folks were bent on having their usual Christmas frolic ; so , after an hour of pleasant chat , they began to get restless , and having consulted together in dumb show , they devised a way to very effectually break up the family council .
Steve vanished , and , sooner than the boys imagined Dandy could get himself up , the skirl of the bag-pipe was heard in the hall , and the bonny piper came to lead Clan Campbell to the revel .
`` Draw it mild , Stevie , my man ; ye play unco weel , but ye mak a most infernal din , '' cried Uncle Jem , with his hands over his ears , for this accomplishment was new to him , and `` took him all aback , '' as he expressed it .
So Steve droned out a Highland reel as softly as he could , and the boys danced it to a circle of admiring relations .
Captain Jem was a true sailor , however , and could not stand idle while anything lively was going on ; so , when the piper's breath gave out , he cut a splendid pigeon-wing into the middle of the hall , saying , `` Who can dance a Fore and After ? ''
and , waiting for no reply , began to whistle the air so invitingly that Mrs Jessie `` set '' to him laughing like a girl ; Rose and Charlie took their places behind , and away went the four with a spirit and skill that inspired all the rest to `` cut in '' as fast as they could .
That was a grand beginning , and they had many another dance before anyone would own they were tired .
Even Fun See distinguished himself with Aunt Plenty , whom he greatly admired as the stoutest lady in the company ; plumpness being considered a beauty in his country .
The merry old soul professed herself immensely flattered by his admiration , and the boys declared she `` set her cap at him , '' else he would never have dared to catch her under the mistletoe , and , rising on the tips of his own toes , gallantly salute her fat cheek .
How they all laughed at her astonishment , and how Fun's little black eyes twinkled over this exploit !
Charlie put him up to it , and Charlie was so bent on catching Rose , that he laid all sorts of pitfalls for her , and bribed the other lads to help him .
But Rose was wide-awake , and escaped all his snares , professing great contempt for such foolish customs .
Poor Phebe did not fare so well , and Archie was the only one who took a base advantage of her as she stood innocently offering tea to Aunt Myra , whom she happened to meet just under the fatal bough .
If his father's arrival had not rather upset him , I doubt if the dignified Chief would have done it , for he apologized at once in the handsomest manner , and caught the tray that nearly dropped from Phebe's hands .
Jamie boldly invited all the ladies to come and salute him ; and as for Uncle Jem , he behaved as if the entire room was a grove of mistletoe .
Uncle Alec slyly laid a bit of it on Aunt Peace's cap , and then softly kissed her ; which little joke seemed to please her very much , for she liked to have part in all the home pastimes , and Alec was her favourite nephew .
Charlie alone failed to catch his shy bird , and the oftener she escaped the more determined he was to ensnare her .
When every other wile had been tried in vain , he got Archie to propose a game with forfeits .
`` I understand that dodge , '' thought Rose , and was on her guard so carefully that not one among the pile soon collected belonged to her .
`` Now let us redeem them and play something else , '' said Will , quite unconscious of the deeply-laid plots all about him .
`` One more round and then we will , '' answered the Prince , who had now baited his trap anew .
Just as the question came to Rose , Jamie's voice was heard in the hall , crying distressfully , `` Oh , come quick , quick ! ''
Rose started up , missed the question , and was greeted with a general cry of `` Forfeit !
forfeit ! ''
in which the little traitor came to join .
`` Now I've got her , '' thought the young rascal , exulting in his fun-loving soul .
`` Now I 'm lost , '' thought Rose , as she gave up her pin-cushion with a sternly defiant look that would have daunted anyone but the reckless Prince .
In fact , it made even him think twice , and resolve to `` let Rose off easy , '' she had been so clever .
`` Here's a very pretty pawn , and what shall be done to redeem it ? ''
asked Steve , holding the pin-cushion over Charlie's head , for he had insisted on being judge , and kept that for the last .
`` Fine or superfine ? ''
`` Super . ''
`` Hum , well , she shall take old Mac under the mistletoe , and kiss him prettily .
Won't he be mad , though ? ''
and this bad boy chuckled over the discomfort he had caused two harmless beings .
There was an impressive pause among the young folks in their corner , for they all knew that Mac would `` be mad , '' since he hated nonsense of this sort , and had gone to talk with the elders when the game began .
At this moment he was standing before the fire , listening to a discussion between his uncles and his father , looking as wise as a young owl , and blissfully unconscious of the plots against him .
Charlie expected that Rose would say , `` I won't ! ''
therefore he was rather astonished , not to say gratified , when , after a look at the victim , she laughed suddenly , and , going up to the group of gentlemen , drew her uncle Mac under the mistletoe and surprised him with a hearty kiss .
`` Thank you , my dear , '' said the innocent gentleman , looking much pleased at the unexpected honour .
`` Oh , come ; that's not fair , '' began Charlie .
But Rose cut him short by saying , as she made him a fine courtesy , `` You said ` Old Mac , ' and though it was very disrespectful , I did it .
That was your last chance , sir , and you've lost it . ''
He certainly had , for , as he spoke , Rose pulled down the mistletoe and threw it into the fire , while the boys jeered at the crestfallen Prince , and exalted quick-witted Rose to the skies .
`` What's the joke ? ''
asked young Mac , waked out of a brown study by the laughter , in which the elders joined .
But there was a regular shout when , the matter having been explained to him , Mac took a meditative stare at Rose through his goggles , and said in a philosophical tone , `` Well , I don't think I should have minded much if she had done it . ''
That tickled the lads immensely , and nothing but the appearance of a slight refection would have induced them to stop chaffing the poor Worm , who could not see anything funny in the beautiful resignation he had shown on this trying occasion .
Soon after this , the discovery of Jamie curled up in the sofa corner , as sound asleep as a dormouse , suggested the propriety of going home , and a general move was made .
They were all standing about the hall lingering over the good-nights , when the sound of a voice softly singing `` Sweet Home , '' made them pause and listen .
It was Phebe , poor little Phebe , who never had a home , never knew the love of father or mother , brother or sister ; who stood all alone in the wide world , yet was not sad nor afraid , but took her bits of happiness gratefully , and sung over her work without a thought of discontent .
I fancy the happy family standing there together remembered this and felt the beauty of it , for when the solitary voice came to the burden of its song , other voices took it up and finished it so sweetly , that the old house seemed to echo the word `` Home '' in the ears of both the orphan girls , who had just spent their first Christmas under its hospitable roof .
`` Brother Alec , you surely don't mean to allow that child to go out such a bitter cold day as this , '' said Mrs. Myra , looking into the study , where the Doctor sat reading his paper , one February morning .
`` Why not ?
If a delicate invalid like yourself can bear it , surely my hearty girl can , especially as she is dressed for cold weather , '' answered Dr. Alec with provoking confidence .
`` But you have no idea how sharp the wind is .
I am chilled to the very marrow of my bones , '' answered Aunt Myra , chafing the end of her purple nose with her sombre glove .
`` I don't doubt it , ma'am , if you will wear crape and silk instead of fur and flannel .
Rosy goes out in all weathers , and will be none the worse for an hour's brisk skating . ''
`` Well , I warn you that you are trifling with the child's health , and depending too much on the seeming improvement she has made this year .
She is a delicate creature for all that , and will drop away suddenly at the first serious attack , as her poor mother did , '' croaked Aunt Myra , with a despondent wag of the big bonnet .
`` I'll risk it , '' answered Dr. Alec , knitting his brows , as he always did when any allusion was made to that other Rose .
`` Mark my words , you will repent it , '' and with that awful prophecy , Aunt Myra departed like a black shadow .
Now it must be confessed that among the Doctor's failings and he had his share was a very masculine dislike of advice which was thrust upon him unasked .
He always listened with respect to the great-aunts , and often consulted Mrs. Jessie ; but the other three ladies tried his patience sorely , by constant warnings , complaints and counsels .
Aunt Myra was an especial trial , and he always turned contrary the moment she began to talk .
He could not help it , and often laughed about it with comic frankness .
Here now was a sample of it , for he had just been thinking that Rose had better defer her run till the wind went down and the sun was warmer .
But Aunt Myra spoke , and he could not resist the temptation to make light of her advice , and let Rose brave the cold .
He had no fear of its harming her , for she went out every day , and it was a great satisfaction to him to see her run down the avenue a minute afterward , with her skates on her arm , looking like a rosy-faced Esquimaux in her seal-skin suit , as she smiled at Aunt Myra stalking along as solemnly as a crow .
`` I hope the child won't stay out long , for this wind is enough to chill the marrow in younger bones than Myra's , '' thought Dr. Alec , half an hour later , as he drove toward the city to see the few patients he had consented to take for old acquaintance ' sake .
The thought returned several times that morning , for it was truly a bitter day , and , in spite of his bear-skin coat , the Doctor shivered .
But he had great faith in Rose's good sense , and it never occurred to him that she was making a little Casabianca of herself , with the difference of freezing instead of burning at her post .
You see , Mac had made an appointment to meet her at a certain spot , and have a grand skating bout as soon as the few lessons he was allowed were over .
She had promised to wait for him , and did so with a faithfulness that cost her dear , because Mac forgot his appointment when the lessons were done , and became absorbed in a chemical experiment , till a general combustion of gases drove him out of his laboratory .
Then he suddenly remembered Rose , and would gladly have hurried away to her , but his mother forbade his going out , for the sharp wind would hurt his eyes .
`` She will wait and wait , mother , for she always keeps her word , and I told her to hold on till I came , '' explained Mac , with visions of a shivering little figure watching on the windy hill-top .
`` Of course , your uncle won't let her go out such a day as this .
If he does , she will have the sense to come here for you , or to go home again when you don't appear , '' said Aunt Jane , returning to her `` Watts on the Mind . ''
`` I wish Steve would just cut up and see if she's there , since I can't go , '' began Mac , anxiously .
`` Steve won't stir a peg , thank you .
He's got his own toes to thaw out , and wants his dinner , '' answered Dandy , just in from school , and wrestling impatiently with his boots .
So Mac resigned himself , and Rose waited dutifully till dinner-time assured her that her waiting was in vain .
She had done her best to keep warm , had skated till she was tired and hot , then stood watching others till she was chilled ; tried to get up a glow again by trotting up and down the road , but failed to do so , and finally cuddled disconsolately under a pine-tree to wait and watch .
When she at length started for home , she was benumbed with cold , and could hardly make her way against the wind that buffeted the frost-bitten rose most unmercifully .
Dr. Alec was basking in the warmth of the study fire , after his drive , when the sound of a stifled sob made him hurry to the door and look anxiously into the hall .
Rose lay in a shivering bunch near the register , with her things half off , wringing her hands , and trying not to cry with the pain returning warmth brought to her half-frozen fingers .
`` My darling , what is it ? ''
and Uncle Alec had her in his arms in a minute .
`` Mac didn't come I can't get warm the fire makes me ache ! ''
and with a long shiver Rose burst out crying , while her teeth chattered , and her poor little nose was so blue , it made one's heart ache to see it .
In less time than it takes to tell it , Dr. Alec had her on the sofa rolled up in the bear-skin coat , with Phebe rubbing her cold feet while he rubbed the aching hands , and Aunt Plenty made a comfortable hot drink , and Aunt Peace sent down her own foot-warmer and embroidered blanket `` for the dear . ''
Full of remorseful tenderness , Uncle Alec worked over his new patient till she declared she was all right again .
He would not let her get up to dinner , but fed her himself , and then forgot his own while he sat watching her fall into a drowse , for Aunt Plenty's cordial made her sleepy .
She lay so several hours for the drowse deepened into a heavy sleep , and Uncle Alec , still at his post , saw with growing anxiety that a feverish colour began to burn in her cheeks , that her breathing was quick and uneven , and now and then she gave a little moan , as if in pain .
Suddenly she woke up with a start , and seeing Aunt Plenty bending over her , put out her arms like a sick child , saying wearily , `` Please , could I go to bed ? ''
`` The best place for you , deary .
Take her right up , Alec ; I've got the hot water ready , and after a nice bath , she shall have a cup of my sage tea , and be rolled up in blankets to sleep off her cold , '' answered the old lady , cheerily , as she bustled away to give orders .
`` Are you in pain , darling ? ''
asked Uncle Alec , as he carried her up .
`` My side aches when I breathe , and I feel stiff and queer ; but it isn't bad , so don't be troubled , uncle , '' whispered Rose , with a little hot hand against his cheek .
But the poor doctor did look troubled , and had cause to do so , for just then Rose tried to laugh at Dolly charging into the room with a warming-pan , but could not , for the sharp pain took her breath away and made her cry out .
`` Pleurisy , '' sighed Aunt Plenty , from the depths of the bath-tub .
`` Pewmonia ! ''
groaned Dolly , burrowing among the bedclothes with the long-handled pan , as if bent on fishing up that treacherous disease .
`` Oh , is it bad ? ''
asked Phebe , nearly dropping a pail of hot water in her dismay , for she knew nothing of sickness , and Dolly's suggestion had a peculiarly dreadful sound to her .
`` Hush ! ''
ordered the Doctor , in a tone that silenced all further predictions , and made everyone work with a will .
`` Make her as comfortable as you can , and when she is in her little bed I'll come and say good-night , '' he added , when the bath was ready and the blankets browning nicely before the fire .
Then he went away to talk quite cheerfully to Aunt Peace about its being `` only a chill '' ; after which he tramped up and down the hall , pulling his beard and knitting his brows , sure signs of great inward perturbation .
`` I thought it would be too good luck to get through the year without a downfall .
Confound my perversity !
Why couldn't I take Myra's advice and keep Rose at home .
It's not fair that the poor child should suffer for my sinful over-confidence .
She shall not suffer for it !
Pneumonia , indeed !
I defy it , '' and he shook his fist in the ugly face of an Indian idol that happened to be before him , as if that particularly hideous god had some spite against his own little goddess .
In spite of his defiance his heart sunk when he saw Rose again , for the pain was worse , and the bath and blankets , the warming-pan and piping-hot sage tea , were all in vain .
For several hours there was no rest for the poor child , and all manner of gloomy forebodings haunted the minds of those who hovered about her with faces full of the tenderest anxiety .
In the midst of the worst paroxysm Charlie came to leave a message from his mother , and was met by Phebe coming despondently downstairs with a mustard plaster that had brought no relief .
`` What the dickens is the matter ?
You look as dismal as a tombstone , '' he said , as she held up her hand to stop his lively whistling .
`` Miss Rose is dreadful sick . ''
`` The deuce she is ! ''
`` Don't swear , Mr. Charlie ; she really is , and it's Mr. Mac's fault , '' and Phebe told the sad tale in a few sharp words , for she felt at war with the entire race of boys at that moment .
`` I'll give it to him , make your mind easy about that , '' said Charlie , with an ominous doubling up of his fist .
`` But Rose isn't dangerously ill , is she ? ''
he added anxiously , as Aunt Plenty was seen to trot across the upper hall , shaking a bottle violently as she went .
`` Oh , but she is though .
The Doctor don't say much , but he don't call it a ` chill ' any more .
It's ` pleurisy ' now , and I 'm so afraid it will be pewmonia to-morrow , '' answered Phebe , with a despairing glance at the plaster .
Charlie exploded into a stifled laugh at the new pronunciation of pneumonia , to Phebe's great indignation .
`` How can you have the heart to do it , and she in such horrid pain ?
Hark to that , and then laugh if you darst , '' she said with a tragic gesture , and her black eyes full of fire .
Charlie listened and heard little moans that went to his heart and made his face as sober as Phebe's .
`` O uncle , please stop the pain , and let me rest a minute !
Don't tell the boys I wasn't brave .
I try to bear it , but it's so sharp I can't help crying . ''
Neither could Charlie , when he heard the broken voice say that ; but , boy-like , he wouldn't own it , and said pettishly , as he rubbed his sleeve across his eyes , `` Don't hold that confounded thing right under my nose ; the mustard makes my eyes smart . ''
`` Don't see how it can , when it hasn't any more strength in it than meal .
The Doctor said so , and I 'm going to get some better , '' began Phebe , not a bit ashamed of the great tears that were bedewing the condemned plaster .
`` I'll go ! ''
and Charlie was off like a shot , glad of an excuse to get out of sight for a few minutes .
When he came back all inconvenient emotion had been disposed of , and , having delivered a box of the hottest mustard procurable for money , he departed to `` blow up '' Mac , that being his next duty in his opinion .
He did it so energetically and thoroughly that the poor Worm was cast into the depths of remorseful despair , and went to bed that evening feeling that he was an outcast from among men , and bore the mark of Cain upon his brow .
Thanks to the skill of the Doctor , and the devotion of his helpers , Rose grew easier about midnight , and all hoped that the worst was over .
Phebe was making tea by the study fire , for the Doctor had forgotten to eat and drink since Rose was ill , and Aunt Plenty insisted on his having a `` good cordial dish of tea '' after his exertions .
A tap on the window startled Phebe , and , looking up , she saw a face peering in .
She was not afraid , for a second look showed her that it was neither ghost nor burglar , but Mac , looking pale and wild in the wintry moonlight .
`` Come and let a fellow in , '' he said in a low tone , and when he stood in the hall he clutched Phebe's arm , whispering gruffly , `` How is Rose ? ''
`` Thanks be to goodness , she's better , '' answered Phebe , with a smile that was like broad sunshine to the poor lad's anxious heart .
`` And she will be all right again to-morrow ? ''
`` Oh , dear no !
Dolly says she's sure to have rheumatic fever , if she don't have noo-monia ! ''
answered Phebe , careful to pronounce the word rightly this time .
Down went Mac's face , and remorse began to gnaw at him again as he gave a great sigh and said doubtfully , `` I suppose I couldn't see her ? ''
`` Of course not at this time of night , when we want her to go to sleep ! ''
Mac opened his mouth to say something more , when a sneeze came upon him unawares , and a loud `` Ah rash hoo ! ''
awoke the echoes of the quiet house .
`` Why didn't you stop it ? ''
said Phebe reproachfully .
`` I dare say you've waked her up . ''
`` Didn't know it was coming .
Just my luck ! ''
groaned Mac , turning to go before his unfortunate presence did more harm .
But a voice from the stair-head called softly , `` Mac , come up ; Rose wants to see you . ''
Up he went , and found his uncle waiting for him .
`` What brings you here at this hour , my boy ? ''
asked the Doctor in a whisper .
`` Charlie said it was all my fault , and if she died I 'd killed her .
I couldn't sleep , so I came to see how she was , and no one knows it but Steve , '' he said with such a troubled face and voice that the Doctor had not the heart to blame him .
Before he could say anything more a feeble voice called `` Mac ! ''
and with a hasty `` Stay a minute just to please her , and then slip away , for I want her to sleep , '' the Doctor led him into the room .
The face on the pillow looked very pale and childish , and the smile that welcomed Mac was very faint , for Rose was spent with pain , yet could not rest till she had said a word of comfort to her cousin .
`` I knew your funny sneeze , and I guessed that you came to see how I did , though it is very late .
Don't be worried , I 'm better now , and it is my fault I was ill , not yours ; for I needn't have been so silly as to wait in the cold just because I said I would . ''
Mac hastened to explain , to load himself with reproaches , and to beg her not to die on any account , for Charlie's lecture had made a deep impression on the poor boy's mind .
`` I didn't know there was any danger of my dying , '' and Rose looked up at him with a solemn expression in her great eyes .
`` Oh , I hope not ; but people do sometimes go suddenly , you know , and I couldn't rest till I 'd asked you to forgive me , '' faltered Mac , thinking that Rose looked very like an angel already , with the golden hair loose on the pillow , and the meekness of suffering on her little white face .
`` I don't think I shall die ; uncle won't let me ; but if I do , remember I forgave you . ''
She looked at him with a tender light in her eyes , and , seeing how pathetic his dumb grief was , she added softly , drawing his head down , `` I wouldn't kiss you under the mistletoe , but I will now , for I want you to be sure I do forgive and love you just the same . ''
That quite upset poor Mac ; he could only murmur his thanks and get out of the room as fast as possible , to grope his way to the couch at the far end of the hall , and lie there till he fell asleep , worn out with trying not to `` make a baby '' of himself .
Whatever danger there might have been from the effects of that sudden chill , it was soon over , though , of course , Aunt Myra refused to believe it , and Dr. Alec cherished his girl with redoubled vigilance and tenderness for months afterward .
Rose quite enjoyed being sick , because as soon as the pain ended the fun began , and for a week or two she led the life of a little princess secluded in the Bower , while every one served , amused , and watched over her in the most delightful manner .
But the doctor was called away to see an old friend , who was dangerously ill , and then Rose felt like a young bird deprived of its mother's sheltering wing ; especially on one afternoon when the aunts were taking their naps , and the house was very still within while snow fell softly without .
`` I'll go and hunt up Phebe , she is always nice and busy , and likes to have me help her .
If Dolly is out of the way we can make caramels and surprise the boys when they come , '' Rose said to herself , as she threw down her book and felt ready for society of some sort .
She took the precaution to peep through the slide before she entered the kitchen , for Dolly allowed no messing when she was round .
But the coast was clear , and no one but Phebe appeared , sitting at the table with her head on her arms apparently asleep .
Rose was just about to wake her with a `` Boo ! ''
when she lifted her head , dried her wet eyes with her blue apron , and fell to work with a resolute face on something she was evidently much interested in .
Rose could not make out what it was , and her curiosity was greatly excited , for Phebe was writing with a sputtering pen on some bits of brown paper , apparently copying something from a little book .
`` I must know what the dear thing is about , and why she cried , and then set her lips tight and went to work with all her might , '' thought Rose , forgetting all about the caramels , and , going round to the door , she entered the kitchen , saying pleasantly , `` Phebe , I want something to do .
Can't you let me help you about anything , or shall I be in the way ? ''
`` Oh , dear no , miss ; I always love to have you round when things are tidy .
What would you like to do ? ''
answered Phebe , opening a drawer as if about to sweep her own affairs out of sight ; but Rose stopped her , exclaiming , like a curious child , `` Let me see !
What is it ?
I won't tell if you 'd rather not have Dolly know . ''
`` I 'm only trying to study a bit ; but I 'm so stupid I don't get on much , '' answered the girl reluctantly , permitting her little mistress to examine the poor contrivances she was trying to work with .
A broken slate that had blown off the roof , an inch or two of pencil , an old almanac for a reader , several bits of brown or yellow paper ironed smoothly and sewn together for a copy-book , and the copies sundry receipts written in Aunt Plenty's neat hand .
These , with a small bottle of ink and a rusty pen , made up Phebe's outfit , and it was little wonder that she did not `` get on '' in spite of the patient persistence that dried the desponding tears and drove along the sputtering pen with a will .
`` You may laugh if you want to , Miss Rose , I know my things are queer , and that's why I hide 'em ; but I don't mind since you've found me out , and I ain't a bit ashamed except of being so backward at my age , '' said Phebe humbly , though her cheeks grew redder as she washed out some crooked capitals with a tear or two not yet dried upon the slate .
`` Laugh at you !
I feel more like crying to think what a selfish girl I am , to have loads of books and things and never remember to give you some .
Why didn't you come and ask me , and not go struggling along alone in this way ?
It was very wrong of you , Phebe , and I'll never forgive you if you do so again , '' answered Rose , with one hand on Phebe's shoulder , while the other gently turned the leaves of the poor little copy-book .
`` I didn't like to ask for anything more when you are so good to me all the time , miss , dear , '' began Phebe , looking up with grateful eyes .
`` O you proud thing !
just as if it wasn't fun to give away , and I had the best of it .
Now , see here , I've got a plan and you mustn't say no , or I shall scold .
I want something to do , and I 'm going to teach you all I know ; it won't take long , '' and Rose laughed as she put her arm around Phebe's neck , and patted the smooth dark head with the kind little hand that so loved to give .
`` It would be just heavenly ! ''
and Phebe's face shone at the mere idea ; but fell again as she added wistfully , `` Only I 'm afraid I ought not to let you do it , Miss Rose .
It will take time , and maybe the Doctor wouldn't like it . ''
`` He didn't want me to study much , but he never said a word about teaching , and I don't believe he will mind a bit .
Anyway , we can try it till he comes , so pack up your things and go right to my room and we'll begin this very day ; I 'd truly like to do it , and we'll have nice times , see if we don't ! ''
cried Rose eagerly .
It was a pretty sight to see Phebe bundle her humble outfit into her apron , and spring up as if the desire of her heart had suddenly been made a happy fact to her ; it was a still prettier sight to see Rose run gaily on before , smiling like a good fairy as she beckoned to the other , singing as she went , `` The way into my parlour is up a winding stair , And many are the curious things I'll show you when you 're there .
Will you , will you walk in , Phebe dear ? ''
`` Oh , won't I ! ''
answered Phebe fervently , adding , as they entered the Bower , `` You are the dearest spider that ever was , and I 'm the happiest fly . ''
`` I 'm going to be very strict , so sit down in that chair and don't say a word till school is ready to open , '' ordered Rose , delighted with the prospect of such a useful and pleasant `` something to do . ''
So Phebe sat demurely in her place while her new teacher laid forth books and slates , a pretty inkstand and a little globe ; hastily tore a bit off her big sponge , sharpened pencils with more energy than skill , and when all was ready gave a prance of satisfaction that set the pupil laughing .
`` Now the school is open , and I shall hear you read , so that I may know in which class to put you , Miss Moore , '' began Rose with great dignity , as she laid a book before her scholar , and sat down in the easy chair with a long rule in her hand .
Phebe did pretty well , only tripping now and then over a hard word , and pronouncing identical `` identickle , '' in a sober way that tickled Rose , though never a smile betrayed her .
The spelling lesson which followed was rather discouraging ; Phebe's ideas of geography were very vague , and grammar was nowhere , though the pupil protested that she tried so hard to `` talk nice like educated folks '' that Dolly called her `` a stuck-up piece who didn't know her place . ''
`` Dolly's an old goose , so don't you mind her , for she will say ` nater , ' ` vittles , ' and ` doos ' as long as she lives , and insist that they are right .
You do talk very nicely , Phebe , I've observed it , and grammar will help you , and show you some things are right and others ain't are not , I mean , '' added Rose , correcting herself , and feeling that she must mind her own parts of speech if she was to serve as an example for Phebe .
When the arithmetic came , the little teacher was surprised to find her scholar quicker in some things than herself , for Phebe had worked away at the columns in the butcher's and baker's books till she could add so quickly and correctly that Rose was amazed , and felt that in this branch the pupil would soon excel the teacher if she kept on at the same pace .
Her praise cheered Phebe immensely , and they went bravely on , both getting so interested that time flew unheeded till Aunt Plenty appeared , exclaiming , as she stared at the two heads bent over one slate , `` Bless my heart , what is going on now ? ''
`` School , aunty .
I 'm teaching Phebe , and it's great fun ! ''
cried Rose , looking up with a bright face .
But Phebe's was brighter , though she added with a wistful look , `` Maybe I ought to have asked leave first ; only when Miss Rose proposed this , I was so happy I forgot to .
Shall I stop , ma'am ? ''
`` Of course not , child ; I 'm glad to see you fond of your book , and to find Rose helping you along .
My blessed mother used to sit at work with her maids about her , teaching them many a useful thing in the good old fashion that's gone by now .
Only don't neglect your work , dear , or let the books interfere with the duties . ''
As Aunt Plenty spoke , with her kind old face beaming approvingly upon the girls , Phebe glanced at the clock , saw that it pointed to five , knew that Dolly would soon be down , expecting to find preparations for supper under way , and , hastily dropping her pencil , she jumped up , saying , `` Please , can I go ?
I'll clear up after I've done my chores . ''
`` School is dismissed , '' answered Rose , and with a grateful `` Thank you , heaps and heaps ! ''
Phebe ran away singing the multiplication table as she set the tea ditto .
That was the way it began , and for a week the class of one went on with great pleasure and profit to all concerned ; for the pupil proved a bright one , and came to her lessons as to a feast , while the young teacher did her best to be worthy the high opinion held of her , for Phebe firmly believed that Miss Rose knew everything in the way of learning .
Of course the lads found out what was going on , and chaffed the girls about the `` Seminary , '' as they called the new enterprise ; but they thought it a good thing on the whole , kindly offered to give lessons in Greek and Latin gratis , and decided among themselves that `` Rose was a little trump to give the Phebe-bird such a capital boost . ''
Rose herself had some doubts as to how it would strike her uncle , and concocted a wheedlesome speech which should at once convince him that it was the most useful , wholesome , and delightful plan ever devised .
But she got no chance to deliver her address , for Dr. Alec came upon her so unexpectedly that it went out of her head entirely .
She was sitting on the floor in the library , poring over a big book laid open in her lap , and knew nothing of the long-desired arrival till two large , warm hands met under her chin and gently turned her head back , so that someone could kiss her heartily on either cheek , while a fatherly voice said , half reproachfully , `` Why is my girl brooding over a dusty Encyclopedia when she ought to be running to meet the old gentleman who couldn't get on another minute without her ? ''
`` O uncle !
I 'm so glad !
and so sorry !
Why didn't you let us know what time you 'd be here , or call out the minute you came ?
Haven't I been home-sick for you ?
and now I 'm so happy to have you back I could hug your dear old curly head off , '' cried Rose , as the Encyclopedia went down with a bang , and she up with a spring that carried her into Dr. Alec's arms , to be kept there in the sort of embrace a man gives to the dearest creature the world holds for him .
Presently he was in his easy chair with Rose upon his knee smiling up in his face and talking as fast as her tongue could go , while he watched her with an expression of supreme content , as he stroked the smooth round cheek , or held the little hand in his , rejoicing to see how rosy was the one , how plump and strong the other .
`` Have you had a good time ?
Did you save the poor lady ?
Aren't you glad to be home again with your girl to torment you ? ''
`` Yes , to all those questions .
Now tell me what you've been at , little sinner ?
Aunty Plen says you want to consult me about some new and remarkable project which you have dared to start in my absence . ''
`` She didn't tell you , I hope ? ''
`` Not a word more expect that you were rather doubtful how I 'd take it , and so wanted to ` fess ' yourself and get round me as you always try to do , though you don't often succeed .
Now , then , own up and take the consequences . ''
So Rose told about her school in her pretty , earnest way , dwelling on Phebe's hunger for knowledge , and the delight it was to help her , adding , with a wise nod , `` And it helps me too , uncle , for she is so quick and eager I have to do my best or she will get ahead of me in some things .
To-day , now , she had the word ` cotton ' in a lesson and asked all about it , and I was ashamed to find I really knew so little that I could only say that it was a plant that grew down South in a kind of a pod , and was made into cloth .
That's what I was reading up when you came , and to-morrow I shall tell her all about it , and indigo too .
So you see it teaches me also , and is as good as a general review of what I've learned , in a pleasanter way than going over it alone . ''
`` You artful little baggage !
that's the way you expect to get round me , is it ?
That's not studying , I suppose ? ''
`` No , sir , it's teaching ; and please , I like it much better than having a good time by myself .
Besides , you know , I adopted Phebe and promised to be a sister to her , so I am bound to keep my word , am I not ? ''
answered Rose , looking both anxious and resolute as she waited for her sentence .
Dr. Alec was evidently already won , for Rose had described the old slate and brown paper copy-book with pathetic effect , and the excellent man had not only decided to send Phebe to school long before the story was done , but reproached himself for forgetting his duty to one little girl in his love for another .
So when Rose tried to look meek and failed utterly , he laughed and pinched her cheek , and answered in that genial way which adds such warmth and grace to any favour , `` I haven't the slightest objection in the world .
In fact , I was beginning to think I might let you go at your books again , moderately , since you are so well ; and this is an excellent way to try your powers .
Phebe is a brave , bright lass , and shall have a fair chance in the world , if we can give it to her , so that if she ever finds her friends they need not be ashamed of her . ''
`` I think she has found some already , '' began Rose eagerly .
`` Hey ?
what ?
has anyone turned up since I've been gone ? ''
asked Dr. Alec quickly , for it was a firm belief in the family that Phebe would prove to be `` somebody '' sooner or later .
`` No , her best friend turned up when you came home , uncle , '' answered Rose with an approving pat , adding gratefully , `` I can't half thank you for being so good to my girl , but she will , because I know she is going to make a woman to be proud of , she's so strong and true , and loving . ''
`` Bless your dear heart , I haven't begun to do anything yet , more shame to me !
But I 'm going at it now , and as soon as she gets on a bit , she shall go to school as long as she likes .
How will that do for a beginning ? ''
`` It will be ` just heavenly , ' as Phebe says , for it is the wish of her life to ` get lots of schooling , ' and she will be too happy when I tell her .
May I , please ?
it will be so lovely to see the dear thing open her big eyes and clap her hands at the splendid news . ''
`` No one shall have a finger in this nice little pie ; you shall do it all yourself , only don't go too fast , or make too many castles in the air , my dear ; for time and patience must go into this pie of ours if it is to turn out well . ''
`` Yes , uncle , only when it is opened won't ` the birds begin to sing ? '' '
laughed Rose , taking a turn about the room as a vent for the joyful emotions that made her eyes shine .
All of a sudden she stopped and asked soberly , `` If Phebe goes to school who will do her work ?
I 'm willing , if I can . ''
`` Come here and I'll tell you a secret .
Dolly's ` bones ' are getting so troublesome , and her dear old temper so bad , that the aunts have decided to pension her off and let her go and live with her daughter , who has married very well .
I saw her this week , and she 'd like to have her mother come , so in the spring we shall have a grand change , and get a new cook and chamber-girl if any can be found to suit our honoured relatives . ''
`` Oh , me !
how can I ever get on without Phebe ?
Couldn't she stay , just so I could see her ?
I 'd pay her board rather than have her go , I 'm so fond of her . ''
How Dr. Alec laughed at that proposal , and how satisfied Rose was when he explained that Phebe was still to be her maid , with no duties except such as she could easily perform between school-hours .
`` She is a proud creature , for all her humble ways , and even from us would not take a favour if she did not earn it somewhere .
So this arrangement makes it all square and comfortable , you see , and she will pay for the schooling by curling these goldilocks a dozen times a day if you let her . ''
`` Your plans are always so wise and kind !
That's why they work so well , I suppose , and why people let you do what you like with them .
I really don't see how other girls get along without an Uncle Alec ! ''
answered Rose , with a sigh of pity for those who had missed so great a blessing .
When Phebe was told the splendid news , she did not `` stand on her head with rapture , '' as Charlie prophesied she would , but took it quietly , because it was such a happy thing she had no words `` big and beautiful enough to thank them in , '' she said ; but every hour of her day was brightened by this granted wish , and dedicated to the service of those who gave it .
Her heart was so full of content that if overflowed in music , and the sweet voice singing all about the house gave thanks so blithely that no other words were needed .
Her willing feet were never tired of taking steps for those who had smoothed her way ; her skilful hands were always busy in some labour of love for them , and on the face fast growing in comeliness there was an almost womanly expression of devotion , which proved how well Phebe had already learned one of life's great lessons gratitude .
`` Steve , I want you to tell me something , '' said Rose to Dandy , who was making faces at himself in the glass , while he waited for an answer to the note he brought from his mother to Aunt Plenty .
`` P'raps I will , and p ` raps I won't .
What is it ? ''
`` Haven't Arch and Charlie quarrelled ? ''
`` Dare say ; we fellows are always having little rows , you know .
I do believe a sty is coming on my star-board eye , '' and Steve affected to be absorbed in a survey of his yellow lashes .
`` No , that won't do ; I want to know all about it ; for I 'm sure something more serious than a ` little row ' is the matter .
Come , please tell me , Stenie , there's a dear . ''
`` Botheration !
you don't want me to turn telltale , do you ? ''
growled Steve , pulling his top-knot , as he always did when perplexed .
`` Yes , I do , '' was Rose's decided answer for she saw from his manner that she was right , and determined to have the secret out of him if coaxing would do it .
`` I don't wish you to tell things to everyone , of course , but to me you may , and you must , because I have a right to know .
You boys need somebody to look after you , and I 'm going to do it , for girls are nice peacemakers , and know how to manage people .
Uncle said so , and he is never wrong . ''
Steve was about to indulge in a derisive hoot at the idea of her looking after them , but a sudden thought restrained him , and suggested a way in which he could satisfy Rose , and better himself at the same time .
`` What will you give me if I'll tell you every bit about it ? ''
he asked , with a sudden red in his cheeks and an uneasy look in his eyes , for he was half ashamed of the proposition .
`` What do you want ? ''
and Rose looked up rather surprised at his question .
`` I 'd like to borrow some money .
I shouldn't think of asking you , only Mac never has a cent .
since he's set up his old chemical shop , where he'll blow himself to bits some day , and you and uncle will have the fun of putting him together again , '' and Steve tried to look as if the idea amused him .
`` I'll lend it to you with pleasure , so tell away , '' said Rose , bound to get at the secret .
Evidently much relieved by the promise , Steve set his top-knot cheerfully erect again , and briefly stated the case .
`` As you say , it's all right to tell you , but don't let the boys know I blabbed , or Prince will take my head off .
You see , Archie don't like some of the fellows Charlie goes with , and cuts 'em .
That makes Prince mad , and he holds on just to plague Arch , so they don't speak to one another , if they can help it , and that's the row . ''
`` Are those boys bad ? ''
asked Rose , anxiously .
`` Guess not , only rather wild .
They are older than our fellows , but they like Prince , he's such a jolly boy ; sings so well , dances jigs and breakdowns , you know , and plays any game that's going .
He beat Morse at billiards , and that's something to brag of , for Morse thinks he knows everything .
I saw the match , and it was great fun ! ''
Steve got quite excited over the prowess of Charlie , whom he admired immensely , and tried to imitate .
Rose did not know half the danger of such gifts and tastes as Charlie's , but felt instinctively that something must be wrong if Archie disapproved .
`` If Prince likes any billiard-playing boy better than Archie , I don't think much of his sense , '' she said severely .
`` Of course he doesn't ; but , you see , Charlie and Arch are both as proud as they can be , and won't give in .
I suppose Arch is right , but I don't blame Charlie a bit for liking to be with the others sometimes , they are such a jolly set , '' and Steve shook his head morally , even while his eye twinkled over the memory of some of the exploits of the `` jolly set . ''
`` Oh , dear me ! ''
sighed Rose , `` I don't see what I can do about it , but I wish the boys would make up , for Prince can't come to any harm with Archie , he's so good and sensible . ''
`` That's the trouble ; Arch preaches , and Prince won't stand it .
He told Arch he was a prig and a parson , and Arch told him he wasn't a gentleman .
My boots !
weren't they both mad , though !
I thought for a minute they 'd pitch into one another and have it out .
Wish they had , and not gone stalking round stiff and glum ever since .
Mac and I settle our rows with a bat or so over the head , and then we are all right . ''
Rose couldn't help laughing as Steve sparred away at a fat sofa-pillow , to illustrate his meaning ; and , having given it several scientific whacks , he pulled down his cuffs and smiled upon her with benign pity for her feminine ignorance of this summary way of settling a quarrel .
`` What droll things boys are ! ''
she said , with a mixture of admiration and perplexity in her face , which Steve accepted as a compliment to his sex .
`` We 're a pretty clever invention , miss , and you can't get on without us , '' he answered , with his nose in the air .
Then , taking a sudden plunge into business , he added , `` How about that bit of money you were going to lend me ?
I've told , now you pay up . ''
`` Of course I will !
How much do you want ? ''
and Rose pulled out her purse .
`` Could you spare five dollars ?
I want to pay a little debt of honour that is rather pressing , '' and Steve put on a mannish air that was comical to see .
`` Aren't all debts honourable ? ''
asked innocent Rose .
`` Yes , of course ; but this is a bet I made , and it ought to be settled up at once , '' began Steve , finding it awkward to explain .
`` Oh , don't bet , it's not right , and I know your father wouldn't like it .
Promise you won't do so again ; please promise ! ''
and Rose held fast the hand into which she had just put the money .
`` Well , I won't .
It's worried me a good deal , but I was joked into it .
Much obliged , cousin , I 'm all right now , '' and Steve departed hastily .
Having decided to be a peace-maker , Rose waited for an opportunity , and very soon it came .
She was spending the day with Aunt Clara , who had been entertaining some young guests , and invited Rose to meet them , for she thought it high time her niece conquered her bashfulness and saw a little of society .
Dinner was over , and everyone had gone .
Aunt Clara was resting before going out to an evening party , and Rose was waiting for Charlie to come and take her home .
She sat alone in the elegant drawing-room , feeling particularly nice and pretty , for she had her best frock on , a pair of gold bands her aunt had just given her , and a tea-rose bud in her sash , like the beautiful Miss Van Tassel , whom everyone admired .
She had spread out her little skirts to the best advantage , and , leaning back in a luxurious chair , sat admiring her own feet in new slippers with rosettes almost as big as dahlias .
Presently Charlie came lounging in , looking rather sleepy and queer , Rose thought .
On seeing her , however , he roused up and said with a smile that ended in a gape , `` I thought you were with mother , so I took forty winks after I got those girls off .
Now , I 'm at your service , Rosamunda , whenever you like . ''
`` You look as if your head ached .
If it does , don't mind me .
I 'm not afraid to run home alone , it's so early , '' answered Rose , observing the flushed cheeks and heavy eyes of her cousin .
`` I think I see myself letting you do it .
Champagne always makes my headache , but the air will set me up . ''
`` Why do you drink it , then ? ''
asked Rose , anxiously .
`` Can't help it , when I 'm host .
Now , don't you begin to lecture ; I've had enough of Archie's old-fashioned notions , and I don't want any more . ''
Charlie's tone was decidedly cross , and his whole manner so unlike his usual merry good-nature , that Rose felt crushed , and answered meekly , `` I wasn't going to lecture , only when people like other people , they can't bear to see them suffer pain . ''
That brought Charlie round at once , for Rose's lips trembled a little , though she tried to hide it by smelling the flower she pulled from her sash .
`` I 'm a regular bear , and I beg your pardon for being so cross , Rosy , '' he said in the old frank way that was so winning .
`` I wish you 'd beg Archie's too , and be good friends again .
You never were cross when he was your chum , '' Rose said , looking up at him as he bent toward her from the low chimney-piece , where he had been leaning his elbows .
In an instant he stood as stiff and straight as a ramrod , and the heavy eyes kindled with an angry spark as he said , in his high and mighty manner , `` You 'd better not meddle with what you don't understand , cousin . ''
`` But I do understand , and it troubles me very much to see you so cold and stiff to one another .
You always used to be together , and now you hardly speak .
You are so ready to beg my pardon I don't see why you can't beg Archie's , if you are in the wrong . ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
this was so short and sharp that Rose started , and Charlie added in a calmer but still very haughty tone : `` A gentleman always begs pardon when he has been rude to a lady , but one man doesn't apologize to another man who has insulted him . ''
`` Oh , my heart , what a pepperpot ! ''
thought Rose , and , hoping to make him laugh , she added slyly : `` I was not talking about men , but boys , and one of them a Prince , who ought to set a good example to his subjects . ''
But Charlie would not relent , and tried to turn the subject by saying gravely , as he unfastened the little gold ring from his watch-guard , `` I've broken my word , so I want to give this back and free you from the bargain .
I 'm sorry , but I think it a foolish promise , and don't intend to keep it .
Choose a pair of ear-rings to suit yourself , as my forfeit .
You have a right to wear them now . ''
`` No , I can only wear one , and that is no use , for Archie will keep his word I 'm sure ! ''
Rose was so mortified and grieved at this downfall of her hopes that she spoke sharply , and would not take the ring the deserter offered her .
He shrugged his shoulders , and threw it into her lap , trying to look cool and careless , but failing entirely , for he was ashamed of himself , and out of sorts generally .
Rose wanted to cry , but pride would not let her , and , being very angry , she relieved herself by talk instead of tears .
Looking pale and excited , she rose out of her chair , cast away the ring , and said in a voice that she vainly tried to keep steady , `` You are not at all the boy I thought you were , and I don't respect you one bit .
I've tried to help you be good , but you won't let me , and I shall not try any more .
You talk a great deal about being a gentleman , but you are not , for you've broken your word , and I can never trust you again .
I don't wish you to go home with me .
I 'd rather have Mary .
Good-night . ''
And with that last dreadful blow , Rose walked out of the room , leaving Charlie as much astonished as if one of his pet pigeons had flown in his face and pecked at him .
She was so seldom angry , that when her temper did get the better of her it made a deep impression on the lads , for it was generally a righteous sort of indignation at some injustice or wrong-doing , not childish passion .
Her little thunderstorm cleared off in a sob or two as she put on her things in the entry-closet , and when she emerged she looked the brighter for the shower .
A hasty good-night to Aunt Clara now under the hands of the hairdresser and then she crept down to find Mary the maid .
But Mary was out , so was the man , and Rose slipped away by the back-door , flattering herself that she had escaped the awkwardness of having Charlie for escort .
There she was mistaken , however , for the gate had hardly closed behind her when a well-known tramp was heard , and the Prince was beside her , saying in a tone of penitent politeness that banished Rose's wrath like magic , `` You needn't speak to me if you don't choose , but I must see you safely home , cousin . ''
She turned at once , put out her hand , and answered heartily , `` I was the cross one .
Please forgive me , and let's be friends again . ''
Now that was better than a dozen sermons on the beauty of forgiveness , and did Charlie more good , for it showed him how sweet humility was , and proved that Rose practised as she preached .
He shook the hand warmly , then drew it through his arm and said , as if anxious to recover the good opinion with the loss of which he had been threatened , `` Look here , Rosy , I've put the ring back , and I 'm going to try again .
But you don't know how hard it is to stand being laughed at . ''
`` Yes , I do !
Ariadne plagues me every time I see her , because I don't wear ear-rings after all the trouble I had getting ready for them . ''
`` Ah , but her twaddle isn't half as bad as the chaffing I get .
It takes a deal of pluck to hold out when you are told you are tied to an apron string , and all that sort of thing , '' sighed Charlie .
`` I thought you had a ` deal of pluck , ' as you call it .
The boys all say you are the bravest of the seven , '' said Rose .
`` So I am about some things , but I can not bear to be laughed at . ''
`` It is hard , but if one is right won't that make it easier ? ''
`` Not to me ; it might to a pious parson like Arch . ''
`` Please don't call him names !
I guess he has what is called moral courage , and you physical courage .
Uncle explained the difference to me , and moral is the best , though often it doesn't look so , '' said Rose thoughtfully .
Charlie didn't like that , and answered quickly , `` I don't believe he 'd stand it any better than I do , if he had those fellows at him . ''
`` Perhaps that's why he keeps out of their way , and wants you to . ''
Rose had him there , and Charlie felt it , but would not give in just yet , though he was going fast , for somehow , in the dark he seemed to see things clearer than in the light , and found it very easy to be confidential when it was `` only Rose . ''
`` If he was my brother , now , he 'd have some right to interfere , '' began Charlie , in an injured tone .
`` I wish he was ! ''
cried Rose .
`` So do I , '' answered Charlie , and then they both laughed at his inconsistency .
The laugh did them good , and when Prince spoke again , it was in a different tone pensive , not proud nor perverse .
`` You see , it's hard upon me that I have no brothers and sisters .
The others are better off and needn't go abroad for chums if they don't like .
I am all alone , and I 'd be thankful even for a little sister . ''
Rose thought that very pathetic , and , overlooking the uncomplimentary word `` even '' in that last sentence , she said , with a timid sort of earnestness that conquered her cousin at once , `` Play I was a little sister .
I know I 'm silly , but perhaps I 'm better than nothing , and I 'd dearly love to do it . ''
`` So should I !
and we will , for you are not silly , my dear , but a very sensible girl , we all think , and I 'm proud to have you for a sister .
There , now ! ''
and Charlie looked down at the curly head bobbing along beside him with real affection in his face .
Rose gave a skip of pleasure , and laid one seal-skin mitten over the other on his arm , as she said happily , `` That's so nice of you !
Now , you needn't be lonely any more , and I'll try to fill Archie's place till he comes back , for I know he will , as soon as you let him . ''
`` Well , I don't mind telling you that while he was my mate I never missed brothers and sisters , or wanted anyone else ; but since he cast me off , I'll be hanged if I don't feel as forlorn as old Crusoe before Friday turned up . ''
This burst of confidence confirmed Rose in her purpose of winning Charlie's Mentor back to him , but she said no more , contented to have done so well .
They parted excellent friends , and Prince went home , wondering why `` a fellow didn't mind saying things to a girl or woman which they would die before they 'd own to another fellow . ''
Rose also had some sage reflections upon the subject , and fell asleep thinking that there were a great many curious things in this world , and feeling that she was beginning to find out some of them .
Next day she trudged up the hill to see Archie , and having told him as much as she thought best about her talk with Charlie , begged him to forget and forgive .
`` I've been thinking that perhaps I ought to , though I am in the right .
I 'm no end fond of Charlie , and he's the best-hearted lad alive ; but he can't say No , and that will play the mischief with him , if he does not take care , '' said Archie in his grave , kind way .
`` While father was home , I was very busy with him , so Prince got into a set I don't like .
They try to be fast , and think it's manly , and they flatter him , and lead him on to do all sorts of things play for money , and bet , and loaf about .
I hate to have him do so , and tried to stop it , but went to work the wrong way , so we got into a mess . ''
`` He is all ready to make up if you don't say much , for he owned to me he was wrong ; but I don't think he will own it to you , in words , '' began Rose .
`` I don't care for that ; if he'll just drop those row-dies and come back , I'll hold my tongue and not preach .
I wonder if he owes those fellows money , and so doesn't like to break off till he can pay it .
I hope not , but don't dare to ask ; though , perhaps , Steve knows , he's always after Prince , more's the pity , '' and Archie looked anxious .
`` I think Steve does know , for he talked about debts of honour the day I gave him -- '' There Rose stopped short and turned scarlet .
But Archie ordered her to `` fess , '' and had the whole story in five minutes , for none dared disobey the Chief .
He completed her affliction by putting a five-dollar bill into her pocket by main force , looking both indignant and resolute as he said , `` Never do so again ; but send Steve to me , if he is afraid to go to his father .
Charlie had nothing to do with that ; he wouldn't borrow a penny of a girl , don't think it .
But that's the harm he does Steve , who adores him , and tries to be like him in all things .
Don't say a word ; I'll make it all right , and no one shall blame you . ''
`` Oh me !
I always make trouble by trying to help , and then letting out the wrong thing , '' sighed Rose , much depressed by her slip of the tongue .
Archie comforted her with the novel remark that it was always best to tell the truth , and made her quite cheerful by promising to heal the breach with Charlie as soon as possible .
He kept his word so well that the very next afternoon , as Rose looked out of the window , she beheld the joyful spectacle of Archie and Prince coming up the avenue , arm-in-arm , as of old , talking away as if to make up for the unhappy silence of the past weeks .
Rose dropped her work , hurried to the door , and , opening it wide , stood there smiling down upon them so happily , that the faces of the lads brightened as they ran up the steps eager to show that all was well with them .
`` Here's our little peace-maker ! ''
said Archie , shaking hands with vigour .
But Charlie added , with a look that made Rose very proud and happy , `` And my little sister . ''
`` Uncle , I have discovered what girls are made for , '' said Rose , the day after the reconciliation of Archie and the Prince .
`` Well , my dear , what is it ? ''
asked Dr. Alec , who was `` planking the deck , '' as he called his daily promenade up and down the hall .
`` To take care of boys , '' answered Rose , quite beaming with satisfaction as she spoke .
`` Phebe laughed when I told her , and said she thought girls had better learn to take care of themselves first .
But that's because she hasn't got seven boy-cousins as I have . ''
`` She is right , nevertheless , Rosy , and so are you , for the two things go together , and in helping seven lads you are unconsciously doing much to improve one lass , '' said Dr. Alec , stopping to nod and smile at the bright-faced figure resting on the old bamboo chair , after a lively game of battledore and shuttlecock , in place of a run which a storm prevented .
`` Am I ?
I 'm glad of that ; but really , uncle , I do feel as if I must take care of the boys , for they come to me in all sorts of troubles , and ask advice , and I like it so much .
Only I don't always know what to do , and I 'm going to consult you privately and then surprise them with my wisdom . ''
`` All right , my dear ; what's the first worry ?
I see you have something on your little mind , so come and tell uncle . ''
Rose put her arm in his , and , pacing to and fro , told him all about Charlie , asking what she could do to keep him straight , and be a real sister to him .
`` Could you make up your mind to go and stay with Aunt Clara a month ? ''
asked the Doctor , when she ended .
`` Yes , sir ; but I shouldn't like it .
Do you really want me to go ? ''
`` The best cure for Charlie is a daily dose of Rose water , or Rose and water , or Rose and water ; will you go and see that he takes it ? ''
laughed Dr. Alec .
`` You mean that if I 'm there and try to make it pleasant , he will stay at home and keep out of mischief ? ''
`` Exactly . ''
`` But could I make it pleasant ?
He would want the boys . ''
`` No danger but he 'd have the boys , for they swarm after you like bees after their queen .
Haven't you found that out ? ''
`` Aunt Plen often says they never used to be here half so much before I came , but I never thought I made the difference , it seemed so natural to have them round . ''
`` Little modesty doesn't know what a magnet she is ; but she will find it out some day , '' and the Doctor softly stroked the cheek that had grown rosy with pleasure at the thought of being so much loved .
`` Now , you see , if I move the magnet to Aunt Clara's , the lads will go there as sure as iron to steel , and Charlie will be so happy at home he won't care for these mischievous mates of his I hope , '' added the Doctor , well knowing how hard it was to wean a seventeen-year-old boy from his first taste of what is called `` seeing life , '' which , alas !
often ends in seeing death .
`` I'll go , uncle , right away !
Aunt Clara is always asking me , and will be glad to get me .
I shall have to dress and dine late , and see lots of company , and be very fashionable , but I'll try not to let it hurt me ; and if I get in a puzzle or worried about anything I can run to you , '' answered Rose , good-will conquering timidity .
So it was decided , and without saying much about the real reason for this visit , Rose was transplanted to Aunt Clara's , feeling that she had a work to do , and very eager to do it well .
Dr. Alec was right about the bees , for the boys did follow their queen , and astonished Mrs. Clara by their sudden assiduity in making calls , dropping in to dinner , and getting up evening frolics .
Charlie was a devoted host , and tried to show his gratitude by being very kind to his `` little sister , '' for he guessed why she came , and his heart was touched by her artless endeavours to `` help him be good . ''
Rose often longed to be back in the old house with the simpler pleasures and more useful duties of the life there ; but , having made up her mind , in spite of Phebe , that `` girls were made to take care of boys , '' here motherly little soul found much to enjoy in the new task she had undertaken .
It was a pretty sight to see the one earnest , sweet-faced girl among the flock of tall lads , trying to understand , to help and please them with a patient affection that worked many a small miracle unperceived .
Slang , rough manners , and careless habits were banished or bettered by the presence of a little gentlewoman ; and all the manly virtues cropping up were encouraged by the hearty admiration bestowed upon them by one whose good opinion all valued more than they confessed ; while Rose tried to imitate the good qualities she praised in them , to put away her girlish vanities and fears , to be strong and just , and frank and brave , as well as modest , kind , and beautiful .
This trial worked so well that when the month was over , Mac and Steve demanded a visit in their turn , and Rose went , feeling that she would like to hear grim Aunt Jane say , as Aunt Clara did at parting , `` I wish I could keep you all my life , dear . ''
After Mac and Steve had had their turn , Archie and Company bore her away for some weeks ; and with them she was so happy , she felt as if she would like to stay for ever , if she could have Uncle Alec also .
Of course , Aunt Myra could not be neglected , and , with secret despair , Rose went to the `` Mausoleum , '' as the boys called her gloomy abode .
Fortunately , she was very near home , and Dr. Alec dropped in so often that her visit was far less dismal than she expected .
Between them , they actually made Aunt Myra laugh heartily more than once ; and Rose did her so much good by letting in the sunshine , singing about the silent house , cooking wholesome messes , and amusing the old lady with funny little lectures on physiology , that she forgot to take her pills and gave up `` Mum's Elixir , '' because she slept so well , after the long walks and drives she was beguiled into taking , that she needed no narcotic .
So the winter flew rapidly away , and it was May before Rose was fairly settled again at home .
They called her the `` Monthly Rose , '' because she had spent a month with each of the aunts , and left such pleasant memories of bloom and fragrance behind her , that all wanted the family flower back again .
Dr. Alec rejoiced greatly over his recovered treasure ; but as the time drew near when his year of experiment ended , he had many a secret fear that Rose might like to make her home for the next twelve month with Aunt Jessie , or even Aunt Clara , for Charlie's sake .
He said nothing , but waited with much anxiety for the day when the matter should be decided ; and while he waited he did his best to finish as far as possible the task he had begun so well .
Rose was very happy now , being out nearly all day enjoying the beautiful awakening of the world , for spring came bright and early , as if anxious to do its part .
The old horse-chestnuts budded round her windows , green things sprung up like magic in the garden under her hands , hardy flowers bloomed as fast as they could , the birds sang blithely overhead , and every day a chorus of pleasant voices cried , `` Good morning , cousin , isn't it jolly weather ? ''
No one remembered the date of the eventful conversation which resulted in the Doctor's experiment , no one but himself at least ; so when the aunts were invited to tea one Saturday they came quite unsuspiciously , and were all sitting together having a social chat , when Brother Alec entered with two photographs in his hand .
`` Do you remember that ? ''
he said , showing one to Aunt Clara , who happened to be nearest .
`` Yes , indeed ; it is very like her when she came .
Quite her sad , unchildlike expression , and thin little face , with the big dark eyes . ''
The picture was passed round , and all agreed that `` it was very like Rose a year ago . ''
This point being settled , the Doctor showed the second picture , which was received with great approbation , and pronounced a `` charming likeness . ''
It certainly was , and a striking contrast to the first one , for it was a blooming , smiling face , full of girlish spirit and health , with no sign of melancholy , though the soft eyes were thoughtful , and the lines about the lips betrayed a sensitive nature .
Dr. Alec set both photographs on the chimneypiece , and , falling back a step or two , surveyed them with infinite satisfaction for several minutes , then wheeled round , saying briefly , as he pointed to the two faces , `` Time is up ; how do you think my experiment has succeeded , ladies ? ''
`` Bless me , so it is ! ''
cried Aunt Plenty , dropping a stitch in her surprise .
`` Beautifully , dear , '' answered Aunt Peace , smiling entire approval .
`` She certainly has improved , but appearances are deceitful , and she had no constitution to build upon , '' croaked Aunt Myra .
`` I am willing to allow that , as far as mere health goes , the experiment is a success , '' graciously observed Aunt Jane , unable to forget Rose's kindness to her Mac .
`` So am I ; and I'll go farther , for I really do believe Alec has done wonders for the child ; she will be a beauty in two or three years , '' added Aunt Clara , feeling that she could say nothing better than that .
`` I always knew he would succeed , and I 'm so glad you all allow it , for he deserves more credit than you know , and more praise than he will ever get , '' cried Aunt Jessie , clapping her hands with an enthusiasm that caused Jamie's little red stocking to wave like a triumphal banner in the air .
Dr. Alec made them a splendid bow , looking much gratified , and then said soberly , `` Thank you ; now the question is , shall I go on ?
for this is only the beginning .
None of you know the hindrances I've had , the mistakes I've made , the study I've given the case , and the anxiety I've often felt .
Sister Myra is right is one thing Rose is a delicate creature , quick to flourish in the sunshine , and as quick to droop without it .
She has no special weakness , but inherits her mother's sensitive nature , and needs the wisest , tenderest care , to keep a very ardent little soul from wearing out a finely organised little body .
I think I have found the right treatment , and ; with you to help me , I believe we may build up a lovely and a noble woman , who will be a pride and comfort to us all . ''
There Dr. Alec stopped to get his breath , for he had spoken very earnestly , and his voice got a little husky over the last words .
A gentle murmur from the aunts seemed to encourage him , and he went on with an engaging smile , for the good man was slyly trying to win all the ladies to vote for him when the time came .
`` Now , I don't wish to be selfish or arbitrary , because I am her guardian , and I shall leave Rose free to choose for herself .
We all want her , and if she likes to make her home with any of you rather than with me , she shall do so .
In fact , I encouraged her visits last winter , that she might see what we can all offer her , and judge where she will be happiest .
Is not that the fairest way ?
Will you agree to abide by her choice , as I do ? ''
`` Yes , we will , '' said all the aunts , in quite a flutter of excitement at the prospect of having Rose for a whole year .
`` Good !
she will be here directly , and then we will settle the question for another year .
A most important year , mind you , for she has got a good start , and will blossom rapidly now if all goes well with her .
So I beg of you don't undo my work , but deal very wisely and gently with my little girl , for if any harm come to her , I think it would break my heart . ''
As he spoke , Dr. Alec turned his back abruptly and affected to be examining the pictures again ; but the aunts understood how dear the child was to the solitary man who had loved her mother years ago , and who now found his happiness in cherishing the little Rose who was so like her .
The good ladies nodded and sighed , and telegraphed to one another that none of them would complain if not chosen , or ever try to rob Brother Alec of his `` Heart's Delight , '' as the boys called Rose .
Just then a pleasant sound of happy voices came up from the garden , and smiles broke out on all serious faces .
Dr. Alec turned at once , saying , as he threw back his head , `` There she is ; now for it ! ''
The cousins had been a-Maying , and soon came flocking in laden with the spoils .
`` Here is our bonny Scotch rose with all her thorns about her , '' said Dr. Alec , surveying her with unusual pride and tenderness , as she went to show Aunt Peace her basket full of early flowers , fresh leaves , and curious lichens .
`` Leave your clutter in the hall , boys , and sit quietly down if you choose to stop here , for we are busy , '' said Aunt Plenty , shaking her finger at the turbulent Clan , who were bubbling over with the jollity born of spring sunshine and healthy exercise .
`` Of course , we choose to stay !
Wouldn't miss our Saturday high tea for anything , '' said the Chief , as he restored order among his men with a nod , a word , and an occasional shake .
`` What is up ?
a court-martial ? ''
asked Charlie , looking at the assembled ladies with affected awe and real curiosity , for these faces betrayed that some interesting business was afloat .
Dr. Alec explained in a few words , which he made as brief and calm as he could ; but the effect was exciting , nevertheless , for each of the lads began at once to bribe , entice , and wheedle `` our cousin '' to choose his home .
`` You really ought to come to us for mother's sake , as a relish , you know , for she must be perfectly satiated with boys , '' began Archie , using the strongest argument he could think of at the moment .
`` Oh , do !
we'll never slam , or bounce at you or call you ` fraid cat , ' if you only will , '' besought Geordie and Will , distorting their countenances in the attempt to smile with overpowering sweetness .
`` And I'll always wash my hands ` fore I touch you , and you shall be my dolly , 'cause Pokey's gone away , and I'll love you hard , '' cried Jamie , clinging to her with his chubby face full of affection .
`` Brothers and sister ought to live together ; especially when the brother needs some one to make home pleasant for him , '' added Charlie , with the wheedlesome tone and look that Rose always found so difficult to resist .
`` You had her longest , and it's our turn now ; Mac needs her more than you do , Prince , for she's ` the light of his eyes , ' he says .
Come , Rose , choose us , and I'll never use the musky pomade you hate again as long as I live , '' said Steve , with his most killing air , as he offered this noble sacrifice .
Mac peered wistfully over his goggles , saying in an unusually wide-awake and earnest way , -- `` Do , cousin , then we can study chemistry together .
My experiments don't blow up very often now , and the gases aren't at all bad when you get used to them . ''
Rose meantime had stood quite still , with the flowers dropping from her hands as her eyes went from one eager face to another , while smiles rippled over her own at the various enticements offered her .
During the laugh that followed Mac's handsome proposition , she looked at her uncle , whose eyes were fixed on her with an expression of love and longing that went to her heart .
`` Ah !
yes , '' she thought , `` he wants me most !
I've often longed to give him something that he wished for very much , and now I can . ''
So , when , at a sudden gesture from Aunt Peace , silence fell , Rose said slowly , with a pretty colour in her cheeks , and a beseeching look about the room , as if asking pardon of the boys , `` It's very hard to choose when everybody is so fond of me ; therefore I think I 'd better go to the one who seems to need me most . ''
`` No , dear , the one you love the best and will be happiest with , '' said Dr. Alec quickly , as a doleful sniff from Aunt Myra , and a murmur of `` My sainted Caroline , '' made Rose pause and look that way .
`` Take time , cousin ; don't be in a hurry to make up your mind , and remember , ` Codlin's your friend , ' '' added Charlie , hopeful still .
`` I don't want any time !
I know who I love best , who I 'm happiest with , and I choose uncle .
Will he have me ? ''
cried Rose , in a tone that produced a sympathetic thrill among the hearers , it was so full of tender confidence and love .
If she really had any doubt , the look in Dr. Alec's face banished it without a word , as he opened wide his arms , and she ran into them , feeling that home was there .
No one spoke for a minute , but there were signs of emotion among the aunts , which warned the boys to bestir themselves before the water-works began to play .
So they took hands and began to prance about uncle and niece , singing , with sudden inspiration , the nursery rhyme , `` Ring around a Rosy ! ''
Of course that put an end to all sentiment , and Rose emerged laughing from Dr. Alec's bosom , with the mark of a waistcoat button nicely imprinted on her left cheek .
He saw it , and said with a merry kiss that half effaced it , `` This is my ewe lamb , and I have set my mark on her , so no one can steal her away . ''
That tickled the boys , and they set up a shout of , `` Uncle had a little lamb ! ''
