`` Look here , Burton , '' said old John Ellis in an ominous tone of voice , `` I want to know if what that old busybody of a Mary Keane came here today gossiping about is true .
If it is -- well , I've something to say about the matter !
Have you been courting that niece of Susan Oliver's all summer on the sly ? ''
Burton Ellis's handsome , boyish face flushed darkly crimson to the roots of his curly black hair .
Something in the father's tone roused anger and rebellion in the son .
He straightened himself up from the turnip row he was hoeing , looked his father squarely in the face , and said quietly , `` Not on the sly , sir , I never do things that way .
But I have been going to see Madge Oliver for some time , and we are engaged .
We are thinking of being married this fall , and we hope you will not object . ''
Burton's frankness nearly took away his father's breath .
Old John fairly choked with rage .
`` You young fool , '' he spluttered , bringing down his hoe with such energy that he sliced off half a dozen of his finest young turnip plants , `` have you gone clean crazy ?
No , sir , I'll never consent to your marrying an Oliver , and you needn't have any idea that I will . ''
`` Then I'll marry her without your consent , '' retorted Burton angrily , losing the temper he had been trying to keep .
`` Oh , will you indeed !
Well , if you do , out you go , and not a cent of my money or a rod of my land do you ever get . ''
`` What have you got against Madge ? ''
asked Burton , forcing himself to speak calmly , for he knew his father too well to doubt for a minute that he meant and would do just what he said .
`` She's an Oliver , '' said old John crustily , `` and that's enough . ''
And considering that he had settled the matter , John Ellis threw down his hoe and left the field in a towering rage .
Burton hoed away savagely until his anger had spent itself on the weeds .
Give up Madge -- dear , sweet little Madge ?
Not he !
Yet if his father remained of the same mind , their marriage was out of the question at present .
And Burton knew quite well that his father would remain of the same mind .
Old John Ellis had the reputation of being the most contrary man in Greenwood .
When Burton had finished his row he left the turnip field and went straight across lots to see Madge and tell her his dismal story .
An hour later Miss Susan Oliver went up the stairs of her little brown house to Madge's room and found her niece lying on the bed , her pretty curls tumbled , her soft cheeks flushed crimson , crying as if her heart would break .
Miss Susan was a tall , grim , angular spinster who looked like the last person in the world to whom a love affair might be confided .
But never were appearances more deceptive than in this case .
Behind her unprepossessing exterior Miss Susan had a warm , sympathetic heart filled to the brim with kindly affection for her pretty niece .
She had seen Burton Ellis going moodily across the fields homeward and guessed that something had gone wrong .
`` Now , dearie , what is the matter ? ''
she said , tenderly patting the brown head .
Madge sobbed out the whole story disconsolately .
Burton's father would not let him marry her because she was an Oliver .
And , oh , what would she do ?
`` Don't worry , Madge , '' said Miss Susan comfortingly .
`` I'll soon settle old John Ellis . ''
`` Why , what can you do ? ''
asked Madge forlornly .
Miss Susan squared her shoulders and looked amused .
`` You'll see .
I know old John Ellis better than he knows himself .
He is the most contrary man the Lord ever made .
I went to school with him .
I learned how to manage him then , and I haven't forgotten how .
I 'm going straight up to interview him . ''
`` Are you sure that will do any good ? ''
said Madge doubtfully .
`` If you go to him and take Burton's and my part , won't it only make him worse ? ''
`` Madge , dear , '' said Miss Susan , busily twisting her scanty , iron-grey hair up into a hard little knob at the back of her head before Madge's glass , `` you just wait .
I 'm not young , and I 'm not pretty , and I 'm not in love , but I've more gumption than you and Burton have or ever will have .
You keep your eyes open and see if you can learn something .
You'll need it if you go up to live with old John Ellis . ''
Burton had returned to the turnip field , but old John Ellis was taking his ease with a rampant political newspaper on the cool verandah of his house .
Looking up from a bitter editorial to chuckle over a cutting sarcasm contained therein , he saw a tall , angular figure coming up the lane with aggressiveness written large in every fold and flutter of shawl and skirt .
`` Old Susan Oliver , as sure as a gun , '' said old John with another chuckle .
`` She looks mad clean through .
I suppose she's coming here to blow me up for refusing to let Burton take that girl of hers .
She's been angling and scheming for it for years , but she will find who she has to deal with .
Come on , Miss Susan . ''
John Ellis laid down his paper and stood up with a sarcastic smile .
Miss Susan reached the steps and skimmed undauntedly up them .
She did indeed look angry and disturbed .
Without any preliminary greeting she burst out into a tirade that simply took away her complacent foe's breath .
`` Look here , John Ellis , I want to know what this means .
I've discovered that that young upstart of a son of yours , who ought to be in short trousers yet , has been courting my niece , Madge Oliver , all summer .
He has had the impudence to tell me that he wants to marry her .
I won't have it , I tell you , and you can tell your son so .
Marry my niece indeed !
A pretty pass the world is coming to !
I'll never consent to it . ''
Perhaps if you had searched Greenwood and all the adjacent districts thoroughly you might have found a man who was more astonished and taken aback than old John Ellis was at that moment , but I doubt it .
The wind was completely taken out of his sails and every bit of the Ellis contrariness was roused .
`` What have you got to say against my son ? ''
he fairly shouted in his rage .
`` Isn't he good enough for your girl , Susan Oliver , I 'd like to know ? ''
`` No , he isn't , '' retorted Miss Susan deliberately and unflinchingly .
`` He's well enough in his place , but you'll please to remember , John Ellis , that my niece is an Oliver , and the Olivers don't marry beneath them . ''
Old John was furious .
`` Beneath them indeed !
Why , woman , it is condescension in my son to so much as look at your niece -- condescension , that is what it is .
You are as poor as church mice . ''
`` We come of good family , though , '' retorted Miss Susan .
`` You Ellises are nobodies .
Your grandfather was a hired man !
And yet you have the presumption to think you 're fit to marry into an old , respectable family like the Olivers .
But talking doesn't signify .
I simply won't allow this nonsense to go on .
I came here today to tell you so plump and plain .
It's your duty to stop it ; if you don't I will , that's all . ''
`` Oh , will you ? ''
John Ellis was at a white heat of rage and stubbornness now .
`` We'll see , Miss Susan , we'll see .
My son shall marry whatever girl he pleases , and I'll back him up in it -- do you hear that ?
Come here and tell me my son isn't good enough for your niece indeed !
I'll show you he can get her anyway . ''
`` You've heard what I've said , '' was the answer , `` and you 'd better go by it , that's all .
I shan't stay to bandy words with you , John Ellis .
I 'm going home to talk to my niece and tell her her duty plain , and what I want her to do , and she'll do it , I haven't a fear . ''
Miss Susan was halfway down the steps , but John Ellis ran to the railing of the verandah to get the last word .
`` I'll send Burton down this evening to talk to her and tell her what he wants her to do , and we'll see whether she'll sooner listen to you than to him , '' he shouted .
Miss Susan deigned no reply .
Old John strode out to the turnip field .
Burton saw him coming and looked for another outburst of wrath , but his father's first words almost took away his breath .
`` See here , Burt , I take back all I said this afternoon .
I want you to marry Madge Oliver now , and the sooner , the better .
That old cat of a Susan had the face to come up and tell me you weren't good enough for her niece .
I told her a few plain truths .
Don't you mind the old crosspatch .
I'll back you up . ''
By this time Burton had begun hoeing vigorously , to hide the amused twinkle of comprehension in his eyes .
He admired Miss Susan's tactics , but he did not say so .
`` All right , Father , '' he answered dutifully .
When Miss Susan reached home she told Madge to bathe her eyes and put on her new pink muslin , because she guessed Burton would be down that evening .
`` Oh , Auntie , how did you manage it ? ''
cried Madge .
`` Madge , '' said Miss Susan solemnly , but with dancing eyes , `` do you know how to drive a pig ?
Just try to make it go in the opposite direction and it will bolt the way you want it .
Remember that , my dear . ''
