Melissa sent word on Monday evening that she thought we had better go round with the subscription list for cushioning the church pews on Tuesday .
I sent back word that I thought we had better go on Thursday .
I had no particular objection to Tuesday , but Melissa is rather fond of settling things without consulting anyone else , and I don't believe in always letting her have her own way .
Melissa is my cousin and we have always been good friends , and I am really very fond of her ; but there's no sense in lying down and letting yourself be walked over .
We finally compromised on Wednesday .
I always have a feeling of dread when I hear of any new church-project for which money will be needed , because I know perfectly well that Melissa and I will be sent round to collect for it .
People say we seem to be able to get more than anybody else ; and they appear to think that because Melissa is an unencumbered old maid , and I am an unencumbered widow , we can spare the time without any inconvenience to ourselves .
Well , we have been canvassing for building funds , and socials , and suppers for years , but it is needed now ; at least , I have had enough of it , and I should think Melissa has , too .
We started out bright and early on Wednesday morning , for Jersey Cove is a big place and we knew we should need the whole day .
We had to walk because neither of us owned a horse , and anyway it's more nuisance getting out to open and shut gates than it is worth while .
It was a lovely day then , though promising to be hot , and our hearts were as light as could be expected , considering the disagreeable expedition we were on .
I was waiting at my gate for Melissa when she came , and she looked me over with wonder and disapproval .
I could see she thought I was a fool to dress up in my second best flowered muslin and my very best hat with the pale pink roses in it to walk about in the heat and dust ; but I wasn't .
All my experience in canvassing goes to show that the better dressed and better looking you are the more money you'll get -- that is , when it's the men you have to tackle , as in this case .
If it had been the women , however , I would have put on the oldest and ugliest things , consistent with decency , I had .
This was what Melissa had done , as it was , and she did look fearfully prim and dowdy , except for her front hair , which was as soft and fluffy and elaborate as usual .
I never could understand how Melissa always got it arranged so beautifully .
Nothing particular happened the first part of the day .
Some few growled and wouldn't subscribe anything , but on the whole we did pretty well .
If it had been a missionary subscription we should have fared worse ; but when it was something touching their own comfort , like cushioning the pews , they came down handsomely .
We reached Daniel Wilson's by noon , and had to have dinner there .
We didn't eat much , although we were hungry enough -- Mary Wilson's cooking is a by-word in Jersey Cove .
No wonder Daniel is dyspeptic ; but dyspeptic or not , he gave us a big subscription for our cushions and told us we looked younger than ever .
Daniel is always very complimentary , and they say Mary is jealous .
When we left the Wilson's Melissa said , with an air of a woman nerving herself to a disagreeable duty : `` I suppose we might as well go to Isaac Appleby's now and get it over . ''
I agreed with her .
I had been dreading that call all day .
It isn't a very pleasant thing to go to a man you have recently refused to marry and ask him for money ; and Melissa and I were both in that predicament .
Isaac was a well-to-do old bachelor who had never had any notion of getting married until his sister died in the winter .
And then , as soon as the spring planting was over , he began to look round for a wife .
He came to me first and I said `` No '' good and hard .
I liked Isaac well enough ; but I was snug and comfortable , and didn't feel like pulling up my roots and moving into another lot ; besides , Isaac's courting seemed to me a shade too business-like .
I can't get along without a little romance ; it's my nature .
Isaac was disappointed and said so , but intimated that it wasn't crushing and that the next best would do very well .
The next best was Melissa , and he proposed to her after the decent interval of a fortnight .
Melissa also refused him .
I admit I was surprised at this , for I knew Melissa was rather anxious to marry ; but she has always been down on Isaac Appleby , from principle , because of a family feud on her mother's side ; besides , an old beau of hers , a widower at Kingsbridge , was just beginning to take notice again , and I suspected Melissa had hopes concerning him .
Finally , I imagine Melissa did not fancy being second choice .
Whatever her reasons were , she refused poor Isaac , and that finished his matrimonial prospects as far as Jersey Cove was concerned , for there wasn't another eligible woman in it -- that is , for a man of Isaac's age .
I was the only widow , and the other old maids besides Melissa were all hopelessly old-maiden .
This was all three months ago , and Isaac had been keeping house for himself ever since .
Nobody knew much about how he got along , for the Appleby house is half a mile from anywhere , down near the shore at the end of a long lane -- the lonesomest place , as I did not fail to remember when I was considering Isaac's offer .
`` I heard Jarvis Aldrich say Isaac had got a dog lately , '' said Melissa , when we finally came in sight of the house -- a handsome new one , by the way , put up only ten years ago .
`` Jarvis said it was an imported breed .
I do hope it isn't cross . ''
I have a mortal horror of dogs , and I followed Melissa into the big farmyard with fear and trembling .
We were halfway across the yard when Melissa shrieked : `` Anne , there's the dog ! ''
There was the dog ; and the trouble was that he didn't stay there , but came right down the slope at a steady , business-like trot .
He was a bull-dog and big enough to bite a body clean in two , and he was the ugliest thing in dogs I had ever seen .
Melissa and I both lost our heads .
We screamed , dropped our parasols , and ran instinctively to the only refuge that was in sight -- a ladder leaning against the old Appleby house .
I am forty-five and something more than plump , so that climbing ladders is not my favorite form of exercise .
But I went up that one with the agility and grace of sixteen .
Melissa followed me , and we found ourselves on the roof -- fortunately it was a flat one -- panting and gasping , but safe , unless that diabolical dog could climb a ladder .
I crept cautiously to the edge and peered over .
The beast was sitting on his haunches at the foot of the ladder , and it was quite evident he was not short on time .
The gleam in his eye seemed to say : `` I've got you two unprincipled subscription hunters beautifully treed and it's treed you 're going to stay .
That is what I call satisfying . ''
I reported the state of the case to Melissa .
`` What shall we do ? ''
I asked .
`` Do ? ''
said Melissa , snappishly .
`` Why , stay here till Isaac Appleby comes out and takes that brute away ?
What else can we do ? ''
`` What if he isn't at home ? ''
I suggested .
`` We'll stay here till he comes home .
Oh , this is a nice predicament .
This is what comes of cushioning churches ! ''
`` It might be worse , '' I said comfortingly .
`` Suppose the roof hadn't been flat ? ''
`` Call Isaac , '' said Melissa shortly .
I didn't fancy calling Isaac , but call him I did , and when that failed to bring him Melissa condescended to call , too ; but scream as we might , no Isaac appeared , and that dog sat there and smiled internally .
`` It's no use , '' said Melissa sulkily at last .
`` Isaac Appleby is dead or away . ''
Half an hour passed ; it seemed as long as a day .
The sun just boiled down on that roof and we were nearly melted .
We were dreadfully thirsty , and the heat made our heads ache , and I could see my muslin dress fading before my very eyes .
As for the roses on my best hat -- but that was too harrowing to think about .
Then we saw a welcome sight -- Isaac Appleby coming through the yard with a hoe over his shoulder .
He had probably been working in his field at the back of the house .
I never thought I should have been so glad to see him .
`` Isaac , oh , Isaac ! ''
I called joyfully , leaning over as far as I dared .
Isaac looked up in amazement at me and Melissa craning our necks over the edge of the roof .
Then he saw the dog and took in the situation .
The creature actually grinned .
`` Won't you call off your dog and let us get down , Isaac ? ''
I said pleadingly .
Isaac stood and reflected for a moment or two .
Then he came slowly forward and , before we realized what he was going to do , he took that ladder down and laid it on the ground .
`` Isaac Appleby , what do you mean ? ''
demanded Melissa wrathfully .
Isaac folded his arms and looked up .
It would be hard to say which face was the more determined , his or the dog's .
But Isaac had the advantage in point of looks , I will say that for him .
`` I mean that you two women will stay up on that roof until one of you agrees to marry me , '' said Isaac solemnly .
I gasped .
`` Isaac Appleby , you can't be in earnest ? ''
I cried incredulously .
`` You couldn't be so mean ? ''
`` I am in earnest .
I want a wife , and I am going to have one .
You two will stay up there , and Julius Caesar here will watch you until one of you makes up her mind to take me .
You can settle it between yourselves , and let me know when you have come to a decision . ''
And with that Isaac walked jauntily into his new house .
`` The man can't mean it ! ''
said Melissa .
`` He is trying to play a joke on us . ''
`` He does mean it , '' I said gloomily .
`` An Appleby never says anything he doesn't mean .
He will keep us here until one of us consents to marry him . ''
`` It won't be me , then , '' said Melissa in a calm sort of rage .
`` I won't marry him if I have to sit on this roof for the rest of my life .
You can take him .
It's really you he wants , anyway ; he asked you first . ''
I always knew that rankled with Melissa .
I thought the situation over before I said anything more .
We certainly couldn't get off that roof , and if we could , there was Julius Caesar .
The place was out of sight of every other house in Jersey Cove , and nobody might come near it for a week .
To be sure , when Melissa and I didn't turn up the Covites might get out and search for us ; but that wouldn't be for two or three days anyhow .
Melissa had turned her back on me and was sitting with her elbows propped up on her knees , looking gloomily out to sea .
I was afraid I couldn't coax her into marrying Isaac .
As for me , I hadn't any real objection to marrying him , after all , for if he was short of romance he was good-natured and has a fat bank account ; but I hated to be driven into it that way .
`` You 'd better take him , Melissa , '' I said entreatingly .
`` I've had one husband and that is enough . ''
`` More than enough for me , thank you , '' said Melissa sarcastically .
`` Isaac is a fine man and has a lovely house ; and you aren't sure the Kingsbridge man really means anything , '' I went on .
`` I would rather , '' said Melissa , with the same awful calmness , `` jump down from this roof and break my neck , or be devoured piecemeal by that fiend down there than marry Isaac Appleby . ''
It didn't seem worth while to say anything more after that .
We sat there in stony silence and the time dragged by .
I was hot , hungry , thirsty , cross ; and besides , I felt that I was in a ridiculous position , which was worse than all the rest .
We could see Isaac sitting in the shade of one of his apple trees in the front orchard comfortably reading a newspaper .
I think if he hadn't aggravated me by doing that I 'd have given in sooner .
But as it was , I was determined to be as stubborn as everybody else .
We were four obstinate creatures -- Isaac and Melissa and Julius Caesar and I .
At four o'clock Isaac got up and went into the house ; in a few minutes he came out again with a basket in one hand and a ball of cord in the other .
`` I don't intend to starve you , of course , ladies , '' he said politely , `` I will throw this ball up to you and you can then draw up the basket . ''
I caught the ball , for Melissa never turned her head .
I would have preferred to be scornful , too , and reject the food altogether ; but I was so dreadfully thirsty that I put my pride in my pocket and hauled the basket up .
Besides , I thought it might enable us to hold out until some loophole of escape presented itself .
Isaac went back into the house and I unpacked the basket .
There was a bottle of milk , some bread and butter , and a pie .
Melissa wouldn't take a morsel of the food , but she was so thirsty she had to take a drink of milk .
She tried to lift her veil -- and something caught ; Melissa gave it a savage twitch , and off came veil and hat -- and all her front hair !
You never saw such a sight .
I 'd always suspected Melissa wore a false front , but I 'd never had any proof before .
Melissa pinned on her hair again and put on her hat and drank the milk , all without a word ; but she was purple .
I felt sorry for her .
And I felt sorry for Isaac when I tried to eat that bread .
It was sour and dreadful .
As for the pie , it was hopeless .
I tasted it , and then threw it down to Julius Caesar .
Julius Caesar , not being over particular , ate it up .
I thought perhaps it would kill him , for anything might come of eating such a concoction .
That pie was a strong argument for Isaac .
I thought a man who had to live on such cookery did indeed need a wife and might be pardoned for taking desperate measures to get one .
I was dreadfully tired of broiling on the roof anyhow .
But it was the thunderstorm that decided me .
When I saw it coming up , black and quick , from the northwest , I gave in at once .
I had endured a good deal and was prepared to endure more ; but I had paid ten dollars for my hat and I was not going to have it ruined by a thunderstorm .
I called to Isaac and out he came .
`` If you will let us down and promise to dispose of that dog before I come here I will marry you , Isaac , '' I said , `` but I'll make you sorry for it afterwards , though . ''
`` I'll take the risk of that , Anne , '' he said ; `` and , of course , I'll sell the dog .
I won't need him when I have you . ''
Isaac meant to be complimentary , though you mightn't have thought so if you had seen the face of that dog .
Isaac ordered Julius Caesar away and put up the ladder , and turned his back , real considerately , while we climbed down .
We had to go in his house and stay till the shower was over .
I didn't forget the object of our call and I produced our subscription list at once .
`` How much have you got ? ''
asked Isaac .
`` Seventy dollars and we want a hundred and fifty , '' I said .
`` You may put me down for the remaining eighty , then , '' said Isaac calmly .
The Applebys are never mean where money is concerned , I must say .
Isaac offered to drive us home when it cleared up , but I said `` No . ''
I wanted to settle Melissa before she got a chance to talk .
On the way home I said to her : `` I hope you won't mention this to anyone , Melissa .
I don't mind marrying Isaac , but I don't want people to know how it came about . ''
`` Oh , I won't say anything about it , '' said Melissa , laughing a little disagreeably .
`` Because , '' I said , to clinch the matter , looking significantly at her front hair as I said it , `` I have something to tell , too . ''
Melissa will hold her tongue .
