No one would have thought of calling him so , this ragged , barefooted , freckle-faced Jack , who spent his days carrying market-baskets for the butcher , or clean clothes for Mrs. Quinn , selling chips , or grubbing in the ash-heaps for cinders .
But he was honestly earning his living , doing his duty as well as he knew how , and serving those poorer and more helpless than himself , and that is being a gentleman in the best sense of that fine old word .
He had no home but Mrs. Quinn's garret ; and for this he paid by carrying the bundles and getting the cinders for her fire .
Food and clothes he picked up as he could ; and his only friend was little Nanny .
Her mother had been kind to him when the death of his father left him all alone in the world ; and when she , too , passed away , the boy tried to show his gratitude by comforting the little girl , who thought there was no one in the world like her Jack .
Old Mrs. Quinn took care of her , waiting till she was strong enough to work for herself ; but Nanny had been sick , and still sat about , a pale , little shadow of her former self , with a white film slowly coming over her pretty blue eyes .
This was Jack's great trouble , and he couldn't whistle it away as he did his own worries ; for he was a cheery lad , and when the baskets were heavy , the way long , the weather bitter cold , his poor clothes in rags , or his stomach empty , he just whistled , and somehow things seemed to get right .
But the day he carried Nanny the first dandelions , and she felt of them , instead of looking at them , as she said , with such pathetic patience in her little face , ' I don't see 'em ; but I know they 're pretty , and I like 'em lots , ' Jack felt as if the blithe spring sunshine was all spoiled ; and when he tried to cheer himself up with a good whistle , his lips trembled so they wouldn't pucker .
` The poor dear's eyes could be cured , I ain't a doubt ; but it would take a sight of money , and who's agoing to pay it ? '
said Mrs. Quinn , scrubbing away at her tub .
` How much money ? '
asked Jack . '
A hundred dollars , I dare say .
Dr. Wilkinson's cook told me once that he done something to a lady's eyes , and asked a thousand dollars for it . '
Jack sighed a long , hopeless sigh , and went away to fill the water-pails ; but he remembered the doctor's name , and began to wonder how many years it would take to earn a hundred dollars .
Nanny was very patient ; but , by and by , Mrs. Quinn began to talk about sending her to some almshouse , for she was too poor to be burdened with a helpless child .
The fear of this nearly broke Jack's heart ; and he went about with such an anxious face that it was a mercy Nanny did not see it .
Jack was only twelve , but he had a hard load to carry just then ; for the thought of his little friend , doomed to lifelong darkness for want of a little money , tempted him to steal more than once , and gave him the first fierce , bitter feeling against those better off than he .
When he carried nice dinners to the great houses and saw the plenty that prevailed there , he couldn't help feeling that it wasn't fair for some to have so much , and others so little .
When he saw pretty children playing in the park , or driving with their mothers , so gay , so well cared for , so tenderly loved , the poor boy's eyes would fill to think of poor little Nanny , with no friend in the world but himself , and he so powerless to help her .
When he one day mustered courage to ring at the great doctor's bell , begging to see him a minute , and the servant answered , gruffly , as he shut the door , ` Go along !
he can't be bothered with the like of you ! '
Jack clenched his hands hard as he went down the steps , and said to himself , with a most unboyish tone , ` I'll get the money somehow , and make him let me in ! '
He did get it , and in a most unexpected way ; but he never forgot the desperate feeling that came to him that day , and all his life long he was very tender to people who were tempted in their times of trouble , and yielded , as he was saved from doing , by what seemed an accident .
Some days after his attempt at the doctor's , as he was grubbing in a newly-deposited ash-heap , with the bitter feeling very bad , and the trouble very heavy , he found a dirty old pocket-book , and put it in his bosom without stopping to examine it ; for many boys and girls were scratching , like a brood of chickens , all round him , and the pickings were unusually good , so no time must be lost .
` Findings is havings ' was one of the laws of the ash-heap haunters ; and no one thought of disputing another's right to the spoons and knives that occasionally found their way into the ash-barrels ; while bottles , old shoes , rags , and paper , were regular articles of traffic among them .
Jack got a good basketful that day ; and when the hurry was over sat down to rest and clear the dirt off his face with an old silk duster which he had picked out of the rubbish , thinking Mrs. Quinn might wash it up for a handkerchief .
But he didn't wipe his dirty face that day ; for , with the rag , out tumbled a pocket-book ; and on opening it he saw -- money .
Yes ; a roll of bills with two figures on all of them , -- three tens and one twenty .
It took his breath away for a minute ; then he hugged the old book tight in both his grimy hands , and rocked to and fro all in a heap among the oyster-shells and rusty tin kettles , saying to himself , with tears running down his cheeks , ' O Nanny !
O Nanny !
now I can do it ! '
I don't think a basket of cinders ever travelled at such a rate before as Mrs. Quinn's did that day ; for Jack tore home at a great pace , and burst into the room , waving the old duster , and shouting , ` Hooray !
I've got it !
I've got it ! '
It is no wonder Mrs. Quinn thought he had lost his wits ; for he looked like a wild boy , with his face all streaked with tears and red ashes , as he danced a double-shuffle till he was breathless , then showered the money into Nanny's lap , and hugged her with another ` Hooray ! '
which ended in a choke .
When they got him quiet and heard the story , Mrs. Quinn rather damped his joy , by telling him the money wasn't his , and he ought to advertise it .
` But I want it for Nanny ! '
cried Jack ; ` and how can I ever find who owns it , when there was ever so many barrels emptied in that heap , and no one knows where they came from ? '
` It's very like you won't find the owner , and you can do as you please ; but it's honest to try , I 'm thinking , for some poor girl may have lost her earnin's this way , and we wouldn't like that ourselves , ' said Mrs. Quinn , turning over the shabby pocket-book , and carefully searching for some clue to its owner .
Nanny looked very sober , and Jack grabbed up the money as if it were too precious to lose .
But he wasn't comfortable about it ; and after a hard fight with himself he consented to let Mrs. Quinn ask their policeman what they should do .
He was a kindly man ; and when he heard the story , said he 'd do what was right , and if he couldn't find an owner , Jack should have the fifty dollars back .
How hard it was to wait !
how Jack thought and dreamed of his money , day and night !
How Nanny ran to the door to listen when a heavy step came up the stairs !
and how wistfully the poor darkened eyes turned to the light which they longed to see again .
Honest John Floyd did his duty , but he didn't find the owner ; so the old purse came back at last , and now Jack could keep it with a clear conscience .
Nanny was asleep when it happened ; and as they sat counting the dingy bills , Mrs. Quinn said to the boy , ` Jack , you 'd better keep this for yourself .
I doubt if it's enough to do the child any good ; and you need clothes and shoes , and a heap of things , let alone the books you hanker after so much .
It ain't likely you'll ever find another wallet .
It's all luck about Nanny's eyes ; and maybe you are only throwing away a chance you'll never have again . '
Jack leaned his head on his arms and stared at the money , all spread out there , and looking so magnificent to him that it seemed as if it could buy half the world .
He did need clothes ; his hearty boy's appetite did long for better food ; and , oh !
how splendid it would be to go and buy the books he had wanted so long , -- the books that would give him a taste of the knowledge which was more enticing to his wide-awake young mind than clothes and food to his poor little body .
It wasn't an easy thing to do ; but he was so used to making small sacrifices that the great one was less hard ; and when he had brooded over the money a few minutes in thoughtful silence , his eye went from the precious bits of paper to the dear little face in the trundle-bed , and he said , with a decided nod , ` I'll give Nanny the chance , and work for my things , or go without 'em . '
Mrs. Quinn was a matter-of-fact body ; but her hard old face softened when he said that , and she kissed him good-night almost as gently as if she 'd been his mother .
Next day , Jack presented himself at Dr. Wilkinson's door , with the money in one hand and Nanny in the other , saying boldly to the gruff servant , ' I want to see the doctor .
I can pay ; so you 'd better let me in . '
I 'm afraid cross Thomas would have shut the door in the boy's face again , if it had not been for the little blind girl , who looked up at him so imploringly that he couldn't resist the mute appeal .
` The doctor's going out ; but maybe he'll see you a minute ; ' and with that he led them into a room where stood a tall man putting on his gloves .
Jack was a modest boy ; but he was so afraid that Nanny would lose her chance , that he forgot himself , and told the little story as fast as he could -- told it well , too , I fancy ; for the doctor listened attentively , his eye going from the boy's eager , flushed face , to the pale patient one beside him , as if the two little figures , shabby though they were , illustrated the story better than the finest artist could have done .
When Jack ended , the doctor sat Nanny on his knee , gently lifted up the half-shut eyelids , and after examining the film a minute , stroked her pretty hair , and said so kindly that she nestled her little hand confidingly into his , ' I think I can help you , my dear .
Tell me where you live , and I'll attend to it at once , for it's high time something was done . '
Jack told him , adding , with a manly air , as he showed the money , ' I can pay you , sir , if fifty dollars is enough . '
` Quite enough , ' said the doctor , with a droll smile .
` If it isn't , I'll work for the rest , if you'll trust me .
Please save Nanny's eyes , and I'll do any thing to pay you ! '
cried Jack , getting red and choky in his earnestness .
The doctor stopped smiling , and held out his hand in a grave , respectful way , as he said , ` I'll trust you , my boy .
We'll cure Nanny first ; and you and I will settle the bill afterward . '
Jack liked that ; it was a gentlemanly way of doing things , and he showed his satisfaction by smiling all over his face , and giving the big , white hand a hearty shake with both his rough ones .
The doctor was a busy man ; but he kept them some time , for there were no children in the fine house , and it seemed pleasant to have a little girl sit on his knee and a bright boy stand beside his chair ; and when , at last , they went away , they looked as if he had given them some magic medicine , which made them forget every trouble they had ever known .
Next day the kind man came to give Nanny her chance .
She had no doubt , and very little fear , but looked up at him so confidingly when all was ready , that he stooped down and kissed her softly before he touched her eyes .
` Let Jack hold my hands ; then I'll be still , and not mind if it hurts me , ' she said .
So Jack , pale with anxiety , knelt down before her , and kept the little hands steadily in his all through the minutes that seemed so long to him .
` What do you see , my child ? '
asked the doctor , when he had done something to both eyes with a quick , skilful hand .
Nanny leaned forward , with the film all gone , and answered , with a little cry of joy , that went to the hearts of those who heard it , ` Jack's face !
I see it !
oh , I see it ! '
Only a freckled , round face , with wet eyes and tightly-set lips ; but to Nanny it was as beautiful as the face of an angel ; and when she was laid away with bandaged eyes to rest , it haunted all her dreams , for it was the face of the little friend who loved her best .
Nanny's chance was not a failure ; and when she saw the next dandelions he brought her , all the sunshine came back into the world brighter than ever for Jack .
Well might it seem so ; for his fifty dollars bought him many things that money seldom buys .
The doctor wouldn't take it at first ; but when Jack said , in the manful tone the doctor liked although it made him smile , ` It was a bargain , sir .
I wish to pay my debts ; and I shan't feel happy if Nanny don't have it all for her eyes .
Please do !
I 'd rather , ' -- then he took it ; and Nanny did have it , not only for her eyes , but in clothes and food and care , many times over ; for it was invested in a bank that pays good interest on every mite so given .
Jack discovered that fifty dollars was far less than most people would have had to pay , and begged earnestly to be allowed to work for the rest .
The doctor agreed to this , and Jack became his errand-boy , serving with a willingness that made a pleasure of duty ; soon finding that many comforts quietly got into his life ; that much help was given without words ; and that the days of hunger and rags , heavy burdens and dusty ash-heaps , were gone by for ever .
The happiest hours of Jack's day were spent in the doctor's chaise , when he made his round of visits ; for while he waited , the boy studied or read , and while they drove hither and thither , the doctor talked with him , finding an eager mind as well as a tender heart and a brave spirit under the rough jacket of his little serving-man .
But he never called him that ; for remembering the cheerfulness , self-denial , honesty , and loyalty to those he loved , shown by the boy , the good doctor proved his respect for the virtues all men should covet , wherever they are found , and always spoke of Jack with a smile , as ` My Little Gentleman . '
