When John Henry died there seemed to be nothing for me to do but pack up and go back east .
I didn't want to do it , but forty-five years of sojourning in this world have taught me that a body has to do a good many things she doesn't want to do , and that most of them turn out to be for the best in the long run .
But I knew perfectly well that it wasn't best for me or anybody else that I should go back to live with William and Susanna , and I couldn't think what Providence was about when things seemed to point that way .
I wanted to stay in Carleton .
I loved the big , straggling , bustling little town that always reminded me of a lanky , overgrown schoolboy , all arms and legs , but full to the brim with enthusiasm and splendid ideas .
I knew Carleton was bound to grow into a magnificent city , and I wanted to be there and see it grow and watch it develop ; and I loved the whole big , breezy golden west , with the rush and tingle of its young life .
And , more than all , I loved my boys , and what I was going to do without them or they without me was more than I knew , though I tried to think Providence might know .
But there was no place in Carleton for me ; the only thing to do was to go back east , and I knew that all the time , even when I was desperately praying that I might find a way to remain .
There's not much comfort , or help either , praying one way and believing another .
I 'd lived down east in Northfield all my life -- until five years ago -- lived with my brother William and his wife .
Northfield was a little pinched-up village where everybody knew more about you than you did about yourself , and you couldn't turn around without being commented upon .
William and Susanna were kind to me , but I was just the old maid sister , of no importance to anybody , and I never felt as if I were really living .
I was simply vegetating on , and wouldn't be missed by a single soul if I died .
It is a horrible feeling , but I didn't expect it would ever be any different , and I had made up my mind that when I died I would have the word `` Wasted '' carved on my tombstone .
It wouldn't be conventional at all , but I 'd been conventional all my life , and I was determined I 'd have something done out of the common even if I had to wait until I was dead to have it .
Then all at once the letter came from John Henry , my brother out west .
He wrote that his wife had died and he wanted me to go out and keep house for him .
I sat right down and wrote him I 'd go and in a week's time I started .
It made quite a commotion ; I had that much satisfaction out of it to begin with .
Susanna wasn't any too well pleased .
I was only the old maid sister , but I was a good cook , and help was scarce in Northfield .
All the neighbours shook their heads , and warned me I wouldn't like it .
I was too old to change my ways , and I 'd be dreadfully homesick , and I 'd find the west too rough and boisterous .
I just smiled and said nothing .
Well , I came out here to Carleton , and from the time I got here I was perfectly happy .
John Henry had a little rented house , and he was as poor as a church mouse , being the ne'er - do-well of our family , and the best loved , as ne'er - do-wells are so apt to be .
He 'd nearly died of lonesomeness since his wife's death , and he was so glad to see me .
That was delightful in itself , and I was just in my element getting that little house fixed up cosy and homelike , and cooking the most elegant meals .
There wasn't much work to do , just for me and him , and I got a squaw in to wash and scrub .
I never thought about Northfield except to thank goodness I 'd escaped from it , and John Henry and I were as happy as a king and queen .
Then after awhile my activities began to sprout and branch out , and the direction they took was boys .
Carleton was full of boys , like all the western towns , overflowing with them as you might say , young fellows just let loose from home and mother , some of them dying of homesickness and some of them beginning to run wild and get into risky ways , some of them smart and some of them lazy , some ugly and some handsome ; but all of them boys , lovable , rollicking boys , with the makings of good men in them if there was anybody to take hold of them and cut the pattern right , but liable to be spoiled just because there wasn't anybody .
Well , I did what I could .
It began with John Henry bringing home some of them that worked in his office to spend the evening now and again , and they told other fellows and asked leave to bring them in too .
And before long it got to be that there never was an evening there wasn't some of them there , `` Aunt-Pattying '' me .
I told them from the start I would not be called Miss. .
When a woman has been Miss for forty-five years she gets tired of it .
So Aunt Patty it was , and Aunt Patty it remained , and I loved all those dear boys as if they 'd been my own .
They told me all their troubles , and I mothered them and cheered them up and scolded them , and finally topped off with a jolly good supper ; for , talk as you like , you can't preach much good into a boy if he's got an aching void in his stomach .
Fill that up with tasty victuals , and then you can do something with his spiritual nature .
If a boy is well stuffed with good things and then won't listen to advice , you might as well stop wasting your breath on him , because there is something radically wrong with him .
Probably his grandfather had dyspepsia .
And a dyspeptic ancestor is worse for a boy than predestination , in my opinion .
Anyway , most of my boys took to going to church and Bible class of their own accord , after I 'd been their aunt for awhile .
The young minister thought it was all his doings , and I let him think so to keep him cheered up .
He was a nice boy himself , and often dropped in of an evening too ; but I never would let him talk theology until after supper .
His views always seemed so much mellower then , and didn't puzzle the other boys more than was wholesome for them .
This went on for five glorious years , the only years of my life I 'd ever lived , and then came , as I thought , the end of everything .
John Henry took typhoid and died .
At first that was all I could think of ; and when I got so that I could think of other things , there was , as I have said , nothing for me to do but go back east .
The boys , who had been as good as gold to me all through my trouble , felt dreadfully bad over this , and coaxed me hard to stay .
They said if I 'd start a boarding house I 'd have all the boarders I could accommodate ; but I knew it was no use to think of that , because I wasn't strong enough , and help was so hard to get .
No , there was nothing for it but Northfield and stagnation again , with not a stray boy anywhere to mother .
I looked the dismal prospect square in the face and made up my mind to it .
But I was determined to give my boys one good celebration before I went , anyway .
It was near Thanksgiving , and I resolved they should have a dinner that would keep my memory green for awhile , a real old-fashioned Thanksgiving dinner such as they used to have at home .
I knew it would cost more than I could really afford , but I shut my eyes to that aspect of the question .
I was going back to strict eastern economy for the rest of my days , and I meant to indulge in one wild , blissful riot of extravagance before I was cooped up again .
I counted up the boys I must have , and there were fifteen , including the minister .
I invited them a fortnight ahead to make sure of getting them , though I needn't have worried , for they all said they would have broken an engagement to dine with the king for one of my dinners .
The minister said he had been feeling so homesick he was afraid he wouldn't be able to preach a real thankful sermon , but now he was comfortably sure that his sermon would be overflowing with gratitude .
I just threw myself heart and soul into the preparations for that dinner .
I had three turkeys and two sucking pigs , and mince pies and pumpkin pies and apple pies , and doughnuts and fruit cake and cranberry sauce and brown bread , and ever so many other things to fill up the chinks .
The night before Thanksgiving everything was ready , and I was so tired I could hardly talk to Jimmy Nelson when he dropped in .
Jimmy had something on his mind , I saw that .
So I said , '' ` Fess up , Jimmy , and then you'll be able to enjoy your call . ''
`` I want to ask a favour of you , Aunt Patty , '' said Jimmy .
I knew I should have to grant it ; nobody could refuse Jimmy anything , he looked so much like a nice , clean , pink-and-white little schoolboy whose mother had just scrubbed his face and told him to be good .
At the same time he was one of the wildest young scamps in Carleton , or had been until a year ago .
I 'd got him well set on the road to reformation , and I felt worse about leaving him than any of the rest of them .
I knew he was just at the critical point .
With somebody to tide him over the next half year he 'd probably go straight for the rest of his life , but if he were left to himself he 'd likely just slip back to his old set and ways .
`` I want you to let me bring my Uncle Joe to dinner tomorrow , '' said Jimmy .
`` The poor old fellow is stranded here for Thanksgiving , and he hates hotels .
May I ? ''
`` Of course , '' I said heartily , wondering why Jimmy seemed to think I mightn't want his Uncle Joe .
`` Bring him right along . ''
`` Thanks , '' said Jimmy .
`` He'll be more than pleased .
Your sublime cookery will delight him .
He adores the west , but he can't endure its cooking .
He's always harping on his mother's pantry and the good old down-east dinners .
He's dyspeptic and pessimistic most of the time , and he's got half a dozen cronies just like himself .
All they think of is railroads and bills of fare . ''
`` Railroads ! ''
I cried .
And then an awful thought assailed me .
`` Jimmy Nelson , your uncle isn't -- isn't -- he can't be Joseph P. Nelson , the rich Joseph P. Nelson ! ''
`` Oh , he's rich enough , '' said Jimmy ; getting up and reaching for his hat .
`` In dollars , that is .
Some ways he's poor enough .
Well , I must be going .
Thanks ever so much for letting me bring Uncle Joe . ''
And that rascal was gone , leaving me crushed .
Joseph Nelson was coming to my house to dinner -- Joseph P. Nelson , the millionaire railroad king , who kept his own chef and was accustomed to dining with the great ones of the earth !
I was afraid I should never be able to forgive Jimmy .
I couldn't sleep a wink that night , and I cooked that dinner next day in a terrible state of mind .
Every ring that came at the door made my heart jump , -- but in the end Jimmy didn't ring at all , but just walked in with his uncle in tow .
The minute I saw Joseph P. I knew I needn't be scared of him ; he just looked real common .
He was little and thin and kind of bored-looking , with grey hair and whiskers , and his clothes were next door to downright shabbiness .
If it hadn't been for the thought of that chef , I wouldn't have felt a bit ashamed of my old-fashioned Thanksgiving spread .
When Joseph P. sat down to that table he stopped looking bored .
All the time the minister was saying grace that man simply stared at a big plate of doughnuts near my end of the table , as if he 'd never seen anything like them before .
All the boys talked and laughed while they were eating , but Joseph P. just ate , tucking away turkey and vegetables and keeping an anxious eye on those doughnuts , as if he was afraid somebody else would get hold of them before his turn came .
I wished I was sure it was etiquette to tell him not to worry because there were plenty more in the pantry .
By the time he 'd been helped three times to mince pie I gave up feeling bad about the chef .
He finished off with the doughnuts , and I shan't tell how many of them he devoured , because I would not be believed .
Most of the boys had to go away soon after dinner .
Joseph P. shook hands with me absently and merely said , `` Good afternoon , Miss Porter . ''
I didn't think he seemed at all grateful for his dinner , but that didn't worry me because it was for my boys I 'd got it up , and not for dyspeptic millionaires whose digestion had been spoiled by private chefs .
And my boys had appreciated it , there wasn't any doubt about that .
Peter Crockett and Tommy Gray stayed to help me wash the dishes , and we had the jolliest time ever .
Afterward we picked the turkey bones .
But that night I realized that I was once more a useless , lonely old woman .
I cried myself to sleep , and next morning I hadn't spunk enough to cook myself a dinner .
I dined off some crackers and the remnants of the apple pies , and I was sitting staring at the crumbs when the bell rang .
I wiped away my tears and went to the door .
Joseph P. Nelson was standing there , and he said , without wasting any words -- it was easy to see how that man managed to get railroads built where nobody else could manage it -- that he had called to see me on a little matter of business .
He took just ten minutes to make it clear to me , and when I saw the whole project I was the happiest woman in Carleton or out of it .
He said he had never eaten such a Thanksgiving dinner as mine , and that I was the woman he 'd been looking for for years .
He said that he had a few business friends who had been brought up on a down-east farm like himself , and never got over their hankering for old-fashioned cookery .
`` That is something we can't get here , with all our money , '' he said .
`` Now , Miss Porter , my nephew tells me that you wish to remain in Carleton , if you can find some way of supporting yourself .
I have a proposition to make to you .
These aforesaid friends of mine and I expect to spend most of our time in Carleton for the next few years .
In fact we shall probably make it our home eventually .
It's going to be the city of the west after awhile , and the centre of a dozen railroads .
Well , we mean to equip a small private restaurant for ourselves and we want you to take charge of it .
You won't have to do much except oversee the business and arrange the bills of fare .
We want plain , substantial old-time meals and cookery .
When we have a hankering for doughnuts and apple pies and cranberry tarts , we want to know just where to get them and have them the right kind .
We 're all horribly tired of hotel fare and fancy fol-de-rols with French names .
A place where we could get a dinner such as you served yesterday would be a boon to us .
We 'd have started the restaurant long ago if we could have got a suitable person to take charge of it . ''
He named the salary the club would pay and the very sound of it made me feel rich .
You may be sure I didn't take long to decide .
That was a year ago , and today the Doughnut Club , as they call themselves , is a huge success , and the fame of it has gone abroad in the land , although they are pretty exclusive and keep all their good things close enough to themselves .
Joseph P. took a Scotch peer there to dinner one day last week .
Jimmy Nelson told me afterward that the man said it was the only satisfying meal he 'd had since he left the old country .
As for me , I have my little house , my very own and no rented one , and all my dear boys , and I 'm a happy old busybody .
You see , Providence did answer my prayers in spite of my lack of faith ; but of course He used means , and that Thanksgiving dinner of mine was the earthly instrument of it all .
