North Point , where Freda lived , was the bleakest settlement in the world .
Even its inhabitants , who loved it , had to admit that .
The northeast winds swept whistling up the bay and blew rawly over the long hill that sloped down to it , blighting everything that was in their way .
Only the sturdy firs and spruces could hold their own against it .
So there were no orchards or groves or flower gardens in North Point .
Just over the hill , in a sheltered southwest valley , was the North Point church with the graveyard behind it , and this graveyard was the most beautiful spot in North Point or near it .
The North Point folk loved flowers .
They could not have them about their homes , so they had them in their graveyard .
It was a matter of pride with each family to keep the separate plot neatly trimmed and weeded and adorned with beautiful blossoms .
It was one of the unwritten laws of the little community that on some selected day in May everybody would repair to the graveyard to plant , trim and clip .
It was not an unpleasant duty , even to those whose sorrow was fresh .
It seemed as if they were still doing something for the friends who had gone when they made their earthly resting places beautiful .
As for the children , they looked forward to `` Graveyard Day '' as a very delightful anniversary , and it divided its spring honours with the amount of the herring catch .
`` Tomorrow is Graveyard Day , '' said Minnie Hutchinson at school recess , when all the little girls were sitting on the fence .
`` Ain't I glad !
I've got the loveliest big white rosebush to plant by Grandma Hutchinson's grave .
Uncle Robert sent it out from town . ''
`` My mother has ten tuberoses to set out , '' said Nan Gray proudly .
`` We 're going to plant a row of lilies right around our plot , '' said Katie Morris .
Every little girl had some boast to make , that is , every little girl but Freda .
Freda sat in a corner all by herself and felt miserably outside of everything .
She had no part or lot in Graveyard Day .
`` Are you going to plant anything , Freda ? ''
asked Nan , with a wink at the others .
Freda shook her head mutely .
`` Freda can't plant anything , '' said Winnie Bell cruelly , although she did not mean to be cruel .
`` She hasn't got a grave . ''
Just then Freda felt as if her gravelessness were a positive disgrace and crime , as if not to have an interest in a single grave in North Point cemetery branded you as an outcast forever and ever .
It very nearly did in North Point .
The other little girls pitied Freda , but at the same time they rather looked down upon her for it with the complacency of those who had been born into a good heritage of family graves and had an undisputed right to celebrate Graveyard Day .
Freda felt that her cup of wretchedness was full .
She sat miserably on the fence while the other girls ran off to play , and she walked home alone at night .
It seemed to her that she could not bear it any longer .
Freda was ten years old .
Four years ago Mrs. Wilson had taken her from the orphan asylum in town .
Mrs. Wilson lived just this side of the hill from the graveyard , and everybody in North Point called her a `` crank . ''
They pitied any child she took , they said .
It would be worked to death and treated like a slave .
At first they tried to pump Freda concerning Mrs. Wilson's treatment of her , but Freda was not to be pumped .
She was a quiet little mite , with big , wistful dark eyes that had a disconcerting fashion of looking the gossips out of countenance .
But if Freda had been disposed to complain , the North Point people would have found out that they had been only too correct in their predictions .
`` Mrs. Wilson , '' Freda said timidly that night , `` why haven't we got a grave ? ''
Mrs. Wilson averred that such a question gave her the `` creeps . ''
`` You ought to be very thankful that we haven't , '' she said severely .
`` That Graveyard Day is a heathenish custom , anyhow .
They make a regular picnic of it , and it makes me sick to hear those school girls chattering about what they mean to plant , each one trying to outblow the other .
If I had a grave there , I wouldn't make a flower garden of it ! ''
Freda did not go to the graveyard the next day , although it was a holiday .
But in the evening , when everybody had gone home , she crept over the hill and through the beech grove to see what had been done .
The plots were all very neat and prettily set out with plants and bulbs .
Some perennials were already in bud .
The grave of Katie Morris ' great-uncle , who had been dead for forty years , was covered with blossoming purple pansies .
Every grave , no matter how small or old , had its share of promise -- every grave except one .
Freda came across it with a feeling of surprise .
It was away down in the lower corner where there were no plots .
It was shut off from the others by a growth of young poplars and was sunken and overgrown with blueberry shrubs .
There was no headstone , and it looked dismally neglected .
Freda felt a sympathy for it .
She had no grave , and this grave had nobody to tend it or care for it .
When she went home she asked Mrs. Wilson whose it was .
`` Humph ! ''
said Mrs. Wilson .
`` If you have so much spare time lying round loose , you 'd better put it into your sewing instead of prowling about graveyards .
Do you expect me to work my fingers to the bone making clothes for you ?
I wish I 'd left you in the asylum .
That grave is Jordan Slade's , I suppose .
He died twenty years ago , and a worthless , drunken scamp he was .
He served a term in the penitentiary for breaking into Andrew Messervey's store , and after it he had the face to come back to North Point .
But respectable people would have nothing to do with him , and he went to the dogs altogether -- had to be buried on charity when he died .
He hasn't any relations here .
There was a sister , a little girl of ten , who used to live with the Cogswells over at East Point .
After Jord died , some rich folks saw her and was so struck with her good looks that they took her away with them .
I don't know what become of her , and I don't care .
Go and bring the cows up . ''
When Freda went to bed that night her mind was made up .
She would adopt Jordan Slade's grave .
Thereafter , Freda spent her few precious spare-time moments in the graveyard .
She clipped the blueberry shrubs and long , tangled grasses from the grave with a pair of rusty old shears that blistered her little brown hands badly .
She brought ferns from the woods to plant about it .
She begged a root of heliotrope from Nan Gray , a clump of day lilies from Katie Morris , a rosebush slip from Nellie Bell , some pansy seed from old Mrs. Bennett , and a geranium shoot from Minnie Hutchinson's big sister .
She planted , weeded and watered faithfully , and her efforts were rewarded .
`` Her '' grave soon looked as nice as any in the graveyard .
Nobody but Freda knew about it .
The poplar growth concealed the corner from sight , and everybody had quite forgotten poor , disreputable Jordan Slade's grave .
At least , it seemed as if everybody had .
But one evening , when Freda slipped down to the graveyard with a little can of water and rounded the corner of the poplars , she saw a lady standing by the grave -- a strange lady dressed in black , with the loveliest face Freda had ever seen , and tears in her eyes .
The lady gave a little start when she saw Freda with her can of water .
`` Can you tell me who has been looking after this grave ? ''
she said .
`` It -- it was I , '' faltered Freda , wondering if the lady would be angry with her .
`` Pleas 'm , it was I , but I didn't mean any harm .
All the other little girls had a grave , and I hadn't any , so I just adopted this one . ''
`` Did you know whose it was ? ''
asked the lady gently .
`` Yes 'm -- Jordan Slade's .
Mrs. Wilson told me . ''
`` Jordan Slade was my brother , '' said the lady .
`` He went sadly astray , but he was not all bad .
He was weak and too easily influenced .
But whatever his faults , he was good and kind -- oh !
so good and kind -- to me when I was a child .
I loved him with all my heart .
It has always been my wish to come back and visit his grave , but I have never been able to come , my home has been so far away .
I expected to find it neglected .
I can not tell you how pleased and touched I am to find it kept so beautifully .
Thank you over and over again , my dear child ! ''
`` Then you 're not cross , ma'am ? ''
said Freda eagerly .
`` And I may go on looking after it , may I ?
Oh , it just seems as if I couldn't bear not to ! ''
`` You may look after it as long as you want to , my dear .
I will help you , too .
I am to be at East Point all summer .
This will be our grave -- yours and mine . ''
That summer was a wonderful one for Freda .
She had found a firm friend in Mrs. Halliday .
The latter was a wealthy woman .
Her husband had died a short time previously and she had no children .
When she went away in the fall , Freda went with her `` to be her own little girl for always . ''
Mrs. Wilson consented grudgingly to give Freda up , although she grumbled a great deal about ingratitude .
Before they went they paid a farewell visit to their grave .
Mrs. Halliday had arranged with some of the North Point people to keep it well attended to , but Freda cried at leaving it .
`` Don't feel badly about it , dear , '' comforted Mrs. Halliday .
`` We are coming back every summer to see it .
It will always be our grave . ''
Freda slipped her hand into Mrs. Halliday's and smiled up at her .
`` I 'd never have found you , Aunty , if it hadn't been for this grave , '' she said happily .
`` I 'm so glad I adopted it . ''
