Something very strange happened the night old Mr. Lawrence died .
I have never been able to explain it and I have never spoken of it except to one person and she said that I dreamed it .
I did not dream it ... I saw and heard , waking .
We had not expected Mr. Lawrence to die then .
He did not seem very ill ... not nearly so ill as he had been during his previous attack .
When we heard of his illness I went over to Woodlands to see him , for I had always been a great favourite with him .
The big house was quiet , the servants going about their work as usual , without any appearance of excitement .
I was told that I could not see Mr. Lawrence for a little while , as the doctor was with him .
Mrs. Yeats , the housekeeper , said the attack was not serious and asked me to wait in the blue parlour , but I preferred to sit down on the steps of the big , arched front door .
It was an evening in June .
Woodlands was very lovely ; to my right was the garden , and before me was a little valley abrim with the sunset .
In places under the big trees it was quite dark even then .
There was something unusually still in the evening ... a stillness as of waiting .
It set me thinking of the last time Mr. Lawrence had been ill ... nearly a year ago in August .
One night during his convalescence I had watched by him to relieve the nurse .
He had been sleepless and talkative , telling me many things about his life .
Finally he told me of Margaret .
I knew a little about her ... that she had been his sweetheart and had died very young .
Mr. Lawrence had remained true to her memory ever since , but I had never heard him speak of her before .
`` She was very beautiful , '' he said dreamily , `` and she was only eighteen when she died , Jeanette .
She had wonderful pale-golden hair and dark-brown eyes .
I have a little ivory miniature of her .
When I die it is to be given to you , Jeanette .
I have waited a long while for her .
You know she promised she would come . ''
I did not understand his meaning and kept silence , thinking that he might be wandering a little in his mind .
`` She promised she would come and she will keep her word , '' he went on .
`` I was with her when she died .
I held her in my arms .
She said to me , ` Herbert , I promise that I will be true to you forever , through as many years of lonely heaven as I must know before you come .
And when your time is at hand I will come to make your deathbed easy as you have made mine .
I will come , Herbert . '
She solemnly promised , Jeanette .
We made a death-tryst of it .
And I know she will come . ''
He had fallen asleep then and after his recovery he had not alluded to the matter again .
I had forgotten it , but I recalled it now as I sat on the steps among the geraniums that June evening .
I liked to think of Margaret ... the lovely girl who had died so long ago , taking her lover's heart with her to the grave .
She had been a sister of my grandfather , and people told me that I resembled her slightly .
Perhaps that was why old Mr. Lawrence had always made such a pet of me .
Presently the doctor came out and nodded to me cheerily .
I asked him how Mr. Lawrence was .
`` Better ... better , '' he said briskly .
`` He will be all right tomorrow .
The attack was very slight .
Yes , of course you may go in .
Don't stay longer than half an hour . ''
Mrs. Stewart , Mr. Lawrence's sister , was in the sickroom when I went in .
She took advantage of my presence to lie down on the sofa a little while , for she had been up all the preceding night .
Mr. Lawrence turned his fine old silver head on the pillow and smiled a greeting .
He was a very handsome old man ; neither age nor illness had marred his finely modelled face or impaired the flash of his keen , steel-blue eyes .
He seemed quite well and talked naturally and easily of many commonplace things .
At the end of the doctor's half-hour I rose to go .
Mrs. Stewart had fallen asleep and he would not let me wake her , saying he needed nothing and felt like sleeping himself .
I promised to come up again on the morrow and went out .
It was dark in the hall , where no lamp had been lighted , but outside on the lawn the moonlight was bright as day .
It was the clearest , whitest night I ever saw .
I turned aside into the garden , meaning to cross it , and take the short way over the west meadow home .
There was a long walk of rose bushes leading across the garden to a little gate on the further side ... the way Mr. Lawrence had been wont to take long ago when he went over the fields to woo Margaret .
I went along it , enjoying the night .
The bushes were white with roses , and the ground under my feet was all snowed over with their petals .
The air was still and breezeless ; again I felt that sensation of waiting ... of expectancy .
As I came up to the little gate I saw a young girl standing on the other side of it .
She stood in the full moonlight and I saw her distinctly .
She was tall and slight and her head was bare .
I saw that her hair was a pale gold , shining somewhat strangely about her head as if catching the moonbeams .
Her face was very lovely and her eyes large and dark .
She was dressed in something white and softly shimmering , and in her hand she held a white rose ... a very large and perfect one .
Even at the time I found myself wondering where she could have picked it .
It was not a Woodlands rose .
All the Woodlands roses were smaller and less double .
She was a stranger to me , yet I felt that I had seen her or someone very like her before .
Possibly she was one of Mr. Lawrence's many nieces who might have come up to Woodlands upon hearing of his illness .
As I opened the gate I felt an odd chill of positive fear .
Then she smiled as if I had spoken my thought .
`` Do not be frightened , '' she said .
`` There is no reason you should be frightened .
I have only come to keep a tryst . ''
The words reminded me of something , but I could not recall what it was .
The strange fear that was on me deepened .
I could not speak .
She came through the gateway and stood for a moment at my side .
`` It is strange that you should have seen me , '' she said , `` but now behold how strong and beautiful a thing is faithful love -- strong enough to conquer death .
We who have loved truly love always -- and this makes our heaven . ''
She walked on after she had spoken , down the long rose path .
I watched her until she reached the house and went up the steps .
In truth I thought the girl was someone not quite in her right mind .
When I reached home I did not speak of the matter to anyone , not even to inquire who the girl might possibly be .
There seemed to be something in that strange meeting that demanded my silence .
The next morning word came that old Mr. Lawrence was dead .
When I hurried down to Woodlands I found all in confusion , but Mrs. Yeats took me into the blue parlour and told me what little there was to tell .
`` He must have died soon after you left him , Miss Jeanette , '' she sobbed , `` for Mrs. Stewart wakened at ten o'clock and he was gone .
He lay there , smiling , with such a strange look on his face as if he had just seen something that made him wonderfully happy .
I never saw such a look on a dead face before . ''
`` Who is here besides Mrs. Stewart ? ''
I asked .
`` Nobody , '' said Mrs. Yeats .
`` We have sent word to all his friends but they have not had time to arrive here yet . ''
`` I met a young girl in the garden last night , '' I said slowly .
`` She came into the house .
I did not know her but I thought she must be a relative of Mr. Lawrence's . ''
Mrs. Yeats shook her head .
`` No .
It must have been somebody from the village , although I didn't know of anyone calling after you went away . ''
I said nothing more to her about it .
After the funeral Mrs. Stewart gave me Margaret's miniature .
I had never seen it or any picture of Margaret before .
The face was very lovely -- also strangely like my own , although I am not beautiful .
It was the face of the young girl I had met at the gate !
