`` Well , so it's all settled , '' said Stephen Falsom .
`` Yes , '' assented Alexina .
`` Yes , it is , '' she repeated , as if somebody had questioned it .
Then Alexina sighed .
Whatever `` it '' was , the fact of its being settled did not seem to bring Alexina any great peace of mind -- nor Stephen either , judging from his face , which wore a sort of `` suffer and be strong '' expression just then .
`` When do you go ? ''
said Alexina , after a pause , during which she had frowned out of the window and across the Tracy yard .
Josephine Tracy and her brother Duncan were strolling about the yard in the pleasant December sunshine , arm in arm , laughing and talking .
They appeared to be a nice , harmless pair of people , but the sight of them did not seem to please Alexina .
`` Just as soon as we can sell the furniture and move away , '' said Stephen moodily .
`` Heigh-ho !
So this is what all our fine ambitions have come to , Lexy , your music and my M.D. .
A place in a department store for you , and one in a lumber mill for me . ''
`` I don't dare to complain , '' said Alexina slowly .
`` We ought to be so thankful to get the positions .
I am thankful .
And I don't mind so very much about my music .
But I do wish you could have gone to college , Stephen . ''
`` Never mind me , '' said Stephen , brightening up determinedly .
`` I 'm going to go into the lumber business enthusiastically .
You don't know what unsuspected talents I may develop along that line .
The worst of it is that we can't be together .
But I'll keep my eyes open , and perhaps I'll find a place for you in Lessing . ''
Alexina said nothing .
Her separation from Stephen was the one point in their fortunes she could not bear to discuss .
There were times when Alexina did not see how she was going to exist without Stephen .
But she never said so to him .
She thought he had enough to worry him without her making matters worse .
`` Well , '' said Stephen , getting up , `` I'll run down to the office .
And see here , Lexy .
Day after tomorrow is Christmas .
Are we going to celebrate it at all ?
If so I 'd better order the turkey . ''
Alexina looked thoughtful .
`` I don't know , Stephen .
We 're short of money , you know , and the fund is dwindling every day .
Don't you think it's a little extravagant to have a turkey for two people ?
And somehow I don't feel a bit Christmassy .
I think I 'd rather spend it just like any other day and try to forget that it is Christmas .
Everything would be so different . ''
`` That's true , Lexy .
And we must look after the bawbees closely , I'll admit . ''
When Stephen had gone out Alexina cried a little , not very much , because she didn't want her eyes to be red against Stephen's return .
But she had to cry a little .
As she had said , everything was so different from what it had been a year ago .
Their father had been alive then and they had been very cosy and happy in the little house at the end of the street .
There had been no mother there since Alexina's birth sixteen years ago .
Alexina had kept house for her father and Stephen since she was ten .
Stephen was a clever boy and intended to study medicine .
Alexina had a good voice , and something was to be done about training it .
The Tracys lived next door to them .
Duncan Tracy was Stephen's particular chum , and Josephine Tracy was Alexina's dearest friend .
Alexina was never lonely when Josie was near by to laugh and chat and plan with .
Then , all at once , troubles came .
In June the firm of which Mr. Falsom was a member failed .
There was some stigma attached to the failure , too , although the blame did not rest upon Mr. Falsom , but with his partner .
Worry and anxiety aggravated the heart trouble from which he had suffered for some time , and a month later he died .
Alexina and Stephen were left alone to face the knowledge that they were penniless , and must look about for some way of supporting themselves .
At first they hoped to be able to get something to do in Thorndale , so that they might keep their home .
This proved impossible .
After much discouragement and disappointment Stephen had secured a position in the lumber mill at Lessing , and Alexina was promised a place in a departmental store in the city .
To make matters worse , Duncan Tracy and Stephen had quarrelled in October .
It was only a boyish disagreement over some trifle , but bitter words had passed .
Duncan , who was a quick-tempered lad , had twitted Stephen with his father's failure , and Stephen had resented it hotly .
Duncan was sorry for and ashamed of his words as soon as they were uttered , but he would not humble himself to say so .
Alexina had taken Stephen's part and her manner to Josie assumed a tinge of coldness .
Josie quickly noticed and resented it , and the breach between the two girls widened almost insensibly , until they barely spoke when they met .
Each blamed the other and cherished bitterness in her heart .
When Stephen came home from the post office he looked excited .
`` Were there any letters ? ''
asked Alexina .
`` Well , rather !
One from Uncle James ! ''
`` Uncle James , '' exclaimed Alexina , incredulously .
`` Yes , beloved sis .
Oh , you needn't try to look as surprised as I did .
And I ordered the turkey after all .
Uncle James has invited himself here to dinner on Christmas Day .
You'll have a chance to show your culinary skill , for you know we've always been told that Uncle James was a gourmand . ''
Alexina read the letter in a maze .
It was a brief epistle , stating that the writer wished to make the acquaintance of his niece and nephew , and would visit them on Christmas Day .
That was all .
But Alexina instantly saw a future of rosy possibilities .
For Uncle James , who lived in the city and was really a great-uncle , had never taken the slightest notice of their family since his quarrel with their father twenty years ago ; but this looked as if Uncle James were disposed to hold out the olive branch .
`` Oh , Stephen , if he likes you , and if he offers to educate you ! ''
breathed Alexina .
`` Perhaps he will if he is favourably impressed .
But we'll have to be so careful , he is so whimsical and odd , at least everybody has always said so .
A little thing may turn the scale either way .
Anyway , we must have a good dinner for him .
I'll have plum pudding and mince pie . ''
For the next thirty-six hours Alexina lived in a whirl .
There was so much to do .
The little house was put in apple pie order from top to bottom , and Stephen was set to stoning raisins and chopping meat and beating eggs .
Alexina was perfectly reckless ; no matter how big a hole it made in their finances Uncle James must have a proper Christmas dinner .
A favourable impression must be made .
Stephen's whole future -- Alexina did not think about her own at all just then -- might depend on it .
Christmas morning came , fine and bright and warm .
It was more like a morning in early spring than in December , for there was no snow or frost , and the air was moist and balmy .
Alexina was up at daybreak , cleaning and decorating at a furious rate .
By eleven o'clock everything was finished or going forward briskly .
The plum pudding was bubbling in the pot , the turkey -- Burton's plumpest -- was sizzling in the oven .
The shelf in the pantry bore two mince pies upon which Alexina was willing to stake her culinary reputation .
And Stephen had gone to the train to meet Uncle James .
From her kitchen window Alexina could see brisk preparations going on in the Tracy kitchen .
She knew Josie and Duncan were all alone ; their parents had gone to spend Christmas with friends in Lessing .
In spite of her hurry and excitement Alexina found time to sigh .
Last Christmas Josie and Duncan had come over and eaten their dinner with them .
But now last Christmas seemed very far away .
And Josie had behaved horridly .
Alexina was quite clear on that point .
Then Stephen came with Uncle James .
Uncle James was a rather pompous , fussy old man with red cheeks and bushy eyebrows .
`` H 'm !
Smells nice in here , '' was his salutation to Alexina .
`` I hope it will taste as good as it smells .
I 'm hungry . ''
Alexina soon left Uncle James and Stephen talking in the parlour and betook herself anxiously to the kitchen .
She set the table in the little dining room , now and then pausing to listen with a delighted nod to the murmur of voices and laughter in the parlour .
She felt sure that Stephen was making a favourable impression .
She lifted the plum pudding and put it on a plate on the kitchen table ; then she took out the turkey , beautifully done , and put it on a platter ; finally , she popped the two mince pies into the oven .
Just at this moment Stephen stuck his head in at the hall door .
`` Lexy , do you know where that letter of Governor Howland's to Father is ?
Uncle James wants to see it . ''
Alexina , not waiting to shut the oven door -- for delay might impress Uncle James unfavourably -- rushed upstairs to get the letter .
She was ten minutes finding it .
Then , remembering her pies , she flew back to the kitchen .
In the middle of the floor she stopped as if transfixed , staring at the table .
The turkey was gone .
And the plum pudding was gone !
And the mince pies were gone !
Nothing was left but the platters !
For a moment Alexina refused to believe her eyes .
Then she saw a trail of greasy drops on the floor to the open door , out over the doorstep , and along the boards of the walk to the back fence .
Alexina did not make a fuss .
Even at that horrible moment she remembered the importance of making a favourable impression .
But she could not quite keep the alarm and excitement out of her voice as she called Stephen , and Stephen knew that something had gone wrong as he came quickly through the hall .
`` Is the turkey burned , Lexy ? ''
he cried .
`` Burned !
No , it's ten times worse , '' gasped Alexina .
`` It's gone -- gone , Stephen .
And the pudding and the mince pies , too .
Oh , what shall we do ?
Who can have taken them ? ''
It may be stated right here and now that the Falsoms never really knew anything more about the disappearance of their Christmas dinner than they did at that moment .
But the only reasonable explanation of the mystery was that a tramp had entered the kitchen and made off with the good things .
The Falsom house was right at the end of the street .
The narrow backyard opened on a lonely road .
Across the road was a stretch of pine woods .
There was no house very near except the Tracy one .
Stephen reached this conclusion with a bound .
He ran out to the yard gate followed by the distracted Alexina .
The only person visible was a man some distance down the road .
Stephen leaped over the gate and tore down the road in pursuit of him .
Alexina went back to the doorstep , sat down upon it , and began to cry .
She couldn't help it .
Her hopes were all in ruins around her .
There was no dinner for Uncle James .
Josephine Tracy saw her crying .
Now , Josie honestly thought that she had a grievance against Alexina .
But an Alexina walking unconcernedly by with a cool little nod and her head held high was a very different person from an Alexina sitting on a back doorstep , on Christmas morning , crying .
For a moment Josie hesitated .
Then she slowly went out and across the yard to the fence .
`` What is the trouble ? ''
she asked .
Alexina forgot that there was such a thing as dignity to be kept up ; or , if she remembered it , she was past caring for such a trifle .
`` Our dinner is gone , '' she sobbed .
`` And there is nothing to give Uncle James to eat except vegetables -- and I do so want to make a favourable impression ! ''
This was not particularly lucid , but Josie , with a flying mental leap , arrived at the conclusion that it was very important that Uncle James , whoever he was , should have a dinner , and she knew where one was to be had .
But before she could speak Stephen returned , looking rueful .
`` No use , Lexy .
That man was only old Mr. Byers , and he had seen no signs of a tramp .
There is a trail of grease right across the road .
The tramp must have taken directly to the woods .
We'll simply have to do without our Christmas dinner . ''
`` By no means , '' said Josie quickly , with a little red spot on either cheek .
`` Our dinner is all ready -- turkey , pudding and all .
Let us lend it to you .
Don't say a word to your uncle about the accident . ''
Alexina flushed and hesitated .
`` It's very kind of you , '' she stammered , `` but I 'm afraid -- it would be too much -- '' `` Not a bit of it , '' Josie interrupted warmly .
`` Didn't Duncan and I have Christmas dinner at your house last year ?
Just come and help us carry it over . ''
`` If you lend us your dinner you and Duncan must come and help us eat it , '' said Alexina , resolutely .
`` I'll come of course , '' said Josie , `` and I think that Duncan will too if -- if -- '' She looked at Stephen , the scarlet spots deepening .
Stephen coloured too .
`` Duncan must come , '' he said quietly .
`` I'll go and ask him . ''
Two minutes later a peculiar procession marched out of the Tracy kitchen door , across the two yards , and into the Falsom house .
Josie headed it , carrying a turkey on a platter .
Alexina came next with a plum pudding .
Stephen and Duncan followed with a hot mince pie apiece .
And in a few more minutes Alexina gravely announced to Uncle James that dinner was ready .
The dinner was a pronounced success , marked by much suppressed hilarity among the younger members of the party .
Uncle James ate very heartily and seemed to enjoy everything , especially the mince pie .
`` This is the best mince pie I have ever sampled , '' he told Alexina .
`` I am glad to know that I have a niece who can make such a mince pie . ''
Alexina cast an agonized look at Josie , and was on the point of explaining that she wasn't the maker of the pie .
But Josie frowned her into silence .
`` I felt so guilty to sit there and take the credit -- your credit , '' she told Josie afterwards , as they washed up the dishes .
`` Nonsense , '' said Josie .
`` It wasn't as if you couldn't make mince pies .
Your mince pies are better than mine , if it comes to that .
It might have spoiled everything if you 'd said a word .
I must go home now .
Won't you and Stephen come over after your uncle goes , and spend the evening with us ?
We'll have a candy pull . ''
When Josie and Duncan had gone , Uncle James called his nephew and niece into the parlour , and sat down before them with approving eyes .
`` I want to have a little talk with you two .
I 'm sorry I've let so many years go by without making your acquaintance , because you seem worth getting acquainted with .
Now , what are your plans for the future ? ''
`` I 'm going into a lumber mill at Lessing and Alexina is going into the T. Morson store , '' said Stephen quietly .
`` Tut , tut , no , you 're not .
And she's not .
You 're coming to live with me , both of you .
If you have a fancy for cutting and carving people up , young man , you must be trained to cut and carve them scientifically , anyhow .
As for you , Alexina , Stephen tells me you can sing .
Well , there's a good Conservatory of Music in town .
Wouldn't you rather go there instead of behind a counter ? ''
`` Oh , Uncle James ! ''
exclaimed Alexina with shining eyes .
She jumped up , put her arms about Uncle James ' neck and kissed him .
Uncle James said , `` Tut , tut , '' again , but he liked it .
When Stephen had seen his uncle off on the six o'clock train he returned home and looked at the radiant Alexina .
`` Well , you made your favourable impression , all right , didn't you ? ''
he said gaily .
`` But we owe it to Josie Tracy .
Isn't she a brick ?
I suppose you 're going over this evening ? ''
`` Yes , I am .
I 'm so tired that I feel as if I couldn't crawl across the yard , but if I can't you'll have to carry me .
Go I will .
I can't begin to tell you how glad I am about everything , but really the fact that you and Duncan and Josie and I are good friends again seems the best of all .
I 'm glad that tramp stole the dinner and I hope he enjoyed it .
I don't grudge him one single bite ! ''
