Johnny Chuck pushed up the last bit of gravel from the hole he had dug between the roots of the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
He smoothed it down on the big , yellow mound he had made in front of his door .
Then he sat up very straight on top of the mound , brushed his coat , shook the sand from his trousers and carefully cleaned his hands .
After he had rested a bit , he turned around and looked at his new home , for that is what it was , although he had not come there to live yet , and no one knew of it , no one but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who , peeping between the branches of the old apple tree , had caught Johnny Chuck at work .
But he wouldn't tell , not jolly Mr. Sun !
Looking down from the blue sky every day he sees all sorts of queer things and he learns all kinds of secrets , does Mr. Sun , but he never , never tells .
No , Sir !
Mr. Sun never tells one of them , not even to Old Mother West Wind when at night they go down together behind the Purple Hills .
So jolly , round , red Mr. Sun just smiled and smiled when he discovered Johnny Chuck's secret , for that is just what the new home under the apple tree was -- a secret .
Not even the Merry Little Breezes , who find out almost everything , had discovered it .
Johnny Chuck chuckled to himself as he planned a back door , a beautiful back door , hidden behind a tall clump of meadow grass where no one would think to look for a door .
When he had satisfied himself as to just where he would put it , he once more sat up very straight on his nice , new mound and looked this way and looked that way to be sure that no one was near .
Then he started for his old home along a secret little path he had made for himself .
Pretty soon he came to the Lone Little Path that went past his own home .
He danced and he skipped along the Lone Little Path , and , because he was so happy , he tried to turn a somersault .
But Johnny Chuck was so round and fat and rolly-poly that he just tumbled over in a heap .
`` Well , well , well !
What's the matter with you ? ''
said a voice close beside him before he could pick himself up .
It was Jimmy Skunk , who was out looking for some beetles for his dinner .
Johnny Chuck scrambled to his feet and looked foolish , very foolish indeed .
`` There's nothing the matter with me , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Johnny .
`` There's nothing the matter with me .
It's just because I've got a secret . ''
`` A secret ! ''
cried Jimmy Skunk .
`` What is it ? ''
`` Yes , a secret , a really , truly secret , '' said Johnny Chuck , and looked very important .
`` Tell me , Johnny Chuck .
Come on , tell just me , and then we'll have the secret together , '' begged Jimmy Skunk .
Now Johnny Chuck was so tickled with his secret that it seemed as if he must share it with some one .
He just couldn't keep it to himself any longer .
`` You won't tell any one ? ''
said Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk promised that he wouldn't tell a soul .
`` Cross your heart , '' commanded Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk crossed his heart .
Then Johnny Chuck looked this way and looked that way to be sure that no one was listening .
Finally he whispered in Jimmy Skunk's ear : `` I've got a new home under the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows , '' said Johnny Chuck .
Of course Jimmy Skunk was very much surprised and very much interested , so Johnny Chuck told him all about it .
`` Now , remember , it's a secret , '' said Johnny Chuck , as Jimmy Skunk started off down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows , to look for some beetles .
`` I'll remember , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` And don't tell ! ''
called Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk promised that he wouldn't tell .
Then Johnny Chuck started off up the Lone Little Path , whistling , and Jimmy Skunk trotted down the Lone Little Path onto the Green Meadows .
Jimmy Skunk was thinking so much about Johnny Chuck's new home that he quite forgot to look for beetles , and he almost ran into Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` can't you see where you are going ?
It must be you have something on your mind ; what is it ? ''
`` I was thinking of Johnny Chuck's new home , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Johnny Chuck's new home ! ''
exclaimed Peter Rabbit .
`` Has Johnny Chuck got a new home ?
Where is it ? ''
`` Under the roots of the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows , '' said Jimmy Skunk , and then he clapped both hands over his mouth .
You see he hadn't really meant to tell .
It just slipped out .
`` Oh , but it's a secret ! ''
cried Jimmy Skunk .
`` It's a secret , and you mustn't tell .
I guess Johnny Chuck won't mind if you know , Peter Rabbit , but you mustn't tell any one else . ''
Peter Rabbit promised he wouldn't .
Now Peter Rabbit is very inquisitive , very inquisitive indeed .
So as soon as he had parted from Jimmy Skunk he made up his mind that he must see the new home of Johnny Chuck .
So off he started as fast as he could go towards the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
Half way there he met Reddy Fox .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
Where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
asked Reddy Fox .
`` Over to the old apple tree to see Johnny Chuck's new home , '' replied Peter Rabbit as he tried to dodge past Reddy Fox .
Then of a sudden he remembered and clapped both hands over his mouth .
`` Oh , but it's a secret , Reddy Fox .
It's a secret , and you mustn't tell ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit .
But Reddy Fox wouldn't promise that he wouldn't tell , for in spite of his handsome coat and fine manners , Reddy Fox is a scamp .
And , besides , he has no love for Johnny Chuck , for he has not forgotten how Johnny Chuck once made him run and called him a '' ` fraid cat . ''
So when Reddy Fox left Peter Rabbit he grinned a wicked grin and hurried off to find Bobby Coon .
He met him on his way to the Laughing Brook .
Reddy Fox told Bobby Coon all about Johnny Chuck's secret and then hurried away after Peter Rabbit , for Reddy Fox also is very inquisitive .
Bobby Coon went on down to the Laughing Brook .
There he met Billy Mink and told him about the new home Johnny Chuck had made under the old apple tree in a corner of the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon Billy Mink met Little Joe Otter and told him .
Then Little Joe Otter met Jerry Muskrat and told him .
Jerry Muskrat saw Blacky the Crow and told him , and Great-Grandfather Frog heard him .
Blacky the Crow met his first cousin , Sammy Jay , and told him .
Sammy Jay met Happy Jack Squirrel and told him .
Happy Jack met his cousin , Striped Chipmunk , and told him .
Striped Chipmunk passed the house of old Mr. Toad and told him .
The next morning , very early , before Old Mother West Wind had come down from the Purple Hills , Johnny Chuck stole over to his new home to begin work on his new back door .
He had hardly begun to dig when he heard some one cough right behind him .
He whirled around and there sat Peter Rabbit looking as innocent and surprised as if he had really just discovered the new home for the first time .
`` What a splendid new home you have , Johnny Chuck ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Y -- e -- s , '' said Johnny Chuck , slowly .
`` It's a secret , '' he added suddenly .
`` You won't tell , will you , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter Rabbit promised that he wouldn't tell .
Then Johnny Chuck felt better and went back to work as soon as Peter Rabbit left .
He had hardly begun , however , when some one just above him said : `` Good morning , Johnny Chuck . ''
Johnny Chuck looked up and there in the old apple tree sat Blacky the Crow and his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Just then there was a rustle in the grass and out popped Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk and Bobby Coon .
When Johnny Chuck had recovered from his surprise and looked over to the doorway of his new home there sat Reddy Fox on Johnny Chuck's precious new mound .
It seemed as if all the little meadow people were there , all but Jimmy Skunk , who wisely stayed away .
`` We've come to see your new home , '' said Striped Chipmunk , `` and we think it's the nicest home we've seen for a long time . ''
`` It's so nicely hidden away , it's really quite secret , '' said Reddy Fox , grinning wickedly .
Just then up raced the Merry Little Breezes and one of them had a message for Johnny Chuck from Great-Grandfather Frog .
It was this : `` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . ''
After every one had admired the new home , they said good-bye and scattered over the Green Meadows .
Then Johnny Chuck began to dig again , but this time he wasn't making his new back door .
No indeed !
Johnny Chuck was digging at that new mound of yellow gravel of which he had been so proud .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun blinked to be sure that he saw aright , for Johnny Chuck was filling up his new home between the roots of the old apple tree .
When he got through , there wasn't any new home .
Then Johnny Chuck brushed his coat carefully , shook the sand out of his trousers , wiped his hands and started off for his old home .
And this time he didn't take his special hidden path , for Johnny Chuck didn't care who saw him go .
Late that afternoon , Johnny Chuck sat on his old doorstep , with his chin in his hands , watching Old Mother West Wind gathering her Merry Little Breezes into the big bag in which she carries them to their home behind the Purple Hills . ''
` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . '
Now what did Grandfather Frog mean by that ? ''
thought Johnny Chuck .
`` Now I didn't tell anybody but Jimmy Skunk and Jimmy Skunk didn't tell anyone but Peter Rabbit and -- and -- '' Then Johnny Chuck began to chuckle and finally to laugh . ''
` Whisper a secret to a friend and you shout it in the ear of the whole world . '
My gracious , what a loud voice I must have had and didn't know it ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , wiping the tears of laughter from his eyes .
And the next day Johnny Chuck started to make a new home .
Where ?
Oh , that's Johnny Chuck's secret .
And no one but jolly , round , red Mr. Sun has found it out yet .
