Miss Corona awoke that June morning with a sigh , the cause of which she was at first too sleepy to understand .
Then it all came over her with a little sickening rush ; she had fallen asleep with tear-wet lashes the night before on account of it .
This was Juliet Gordon 's wedding day , and she , Miss Corona , could not go to the wedding and was not even invited , all because of the Quarrel , a generation old , and so chronic and bitter and terrible that it always presented itself to Miss Corona 's mental vision as spelled with a capital .
Well might Miss Corona hate it .
It had shut her up into a lonely life for long years .
Juliet Gordon and Juliet 's father , Meredith Gordon , were the only relations Miss Corona had in the world , and the old family feud divided them by a gulf which now seemed impassable .
Miss Corona turned over on her pillows , lifted one corner of the white window-blind and peeped out .
Below her a river of early sunshine was flowing through the garden , and the far-away slopes were translucent green in their splendour of young day , with gauzy , uncertain mists lingering , spiritlike , in their intervales .
A bird , his sleek plumage iridescent in the sunlight , was perched on the big chestnut bough that ran squarely across the window , singing as if his heart would burst with melody and the joy of his tiny life .
No bride could have wished anything fairer for her day of days , and Miss Corona dropped back on her pillows with another gentle sigh .
`` I 'm so glad that the dear child has a fine day to be married , '' she said .
Juliet Gordon was always `` dear child '' to Miss Corona , although the two had never spoken to each other in their lives .
Miss Corona was a brisk and early riser as a rule , with a genuine horror of lazy people who lay late abed or took over-long to get their eyes well opened , but this morning she made no hurry about rising , even though scurrying footsteps , banging doors , and over-loud tinkling of dishes in the room below betokened that Charlotta was already up and about .
And Charlotta , as poor Miss Corona knew only too well , was fatally sure to do something unfortunate if she were not under some careful , overseeing eye .
To be sure , Charlotta 's intentions were always good .
But Miss Corona was not thinking about Charlotta this morning , and she felt so strong a distaste for her lonely , purposeless life that she was in no haste to go forth to meet another day of it .
Miss Corona felt just the least little bit tired of living , although she feared it was very wicked of her to feel so .
She lay there listlessly for half an hour longer , looking through a mist of tears at the portrait of her stern old father hanging on the wall at the foot of the bed , and thinking over the Quarrel .
It had happened thirty years ago , when Miss Corona had been a girl of twenty , living alone with her father at the old Gordon homestead on the hill , with the big black spruce grove behind it on the north and far-reaching slopes of green fields before it on the south .
Down in the little northern valley below the spruce grove lived her uncle , Alexis Gordon .
His son , Meredith , had seemed to Corona as her own brother .
The mothers of both were dead ; neither had any other brother or sister .
The two children had grown up together , playmates and devoted friends .
There had never been any sentiment or lovemaking between them to mar a perfect comradeship .
They were only the best of friends , whatever plans the fathers might have cherished for the union of their estates and children , putting the property consideration first , as the Gordons were always prone to do .
But , if Roderick and Alexis Gordon had any such plans , all went by the board when they quarreled .
Corona shivered yet over the bitterness of that time .
The Gordons never did anything half-heartedly .
The strife between the two brothers was determined and irreconcilable .
Corona 's father forbade her to speak to her uncle and cousin or to hold any communication with them .
Corona wept and obeyed him .
She had always obeyed her father ; it had never entered into her mind to do anything else .
Meredith had resented her attitude hotly , and from that day they had never spoken or met , while the years came and went , each making a little wider and more hopeless the gulf of coldness and anger and distrust .
Ten years later Roderick Gordon died , and in five months Alexis Gordon followed him to the grave .
The two brothers who had hated each other so unyieldingly in life slept very peaceably side by side in the old Gordon plot of the country graveyard , but their rancour still served to embitter the lives of their descendants .
Corona , with a half-guilty sense of disloyalty to her father , hoped that she and Meredith might now be friends again .
He was married , and had one little daughter .
In her new and intolerable loneliness Corona 's heart yearned after her own people .
But she was too timid to make any advances , and Meredith never made any .
Corona believed that he hated her , and let slip her last fluttering hope that the old breach would ever be healed .
`` Oh , dear !
oh , dear ! ''
she sobbed softly into her pillows .
It seemed a terrible thing to her that one of her race and kin was to be married and she could not be present at the ceremony , she who had never seen a Gordon bride .
When Miss Corona went downstairs at last , she found Charlotta sobbing in the kitchen porch .
The small handmaiden was doubled up on the floor , with her face muffled in her gingham apron and her long braids of red hair hanging with limp straightness down her back .
When Charlotta was in good spirits , they always hung perkily over each shoulder , tied up with enormous bows of sky-blue ribbon .
`` What have you done this time ? ''
asked Miss Corona , without the slightest intention of being humorous or sarcastic .
`` I've -- I've bruk your green and yaller bowl , '' sniffed Charlotta .
`` didn't mean to , Miss C'rona .
It jest slipped out so fashion ` fore I c 'd grab holt on it .
And it 's bruk into forty millyun pieces .
Ain't I the onluckiest girl ? ''
`` You certainly are , '' sighed Miss Corona .
At any other time she would have been filled with dismay over the untoward fate of her green and yellow bowl , which had belonged to her great-grandmother and had stood on the hall table to hold flowers as long as she could remember .
But just now her heart was so sore over the Quarrel that there was no room for other regrets .
`` Well , well , crying won't mend it .
I suppose it is a judgment on me for staying abed so late .
Go and sweep up the pieces , and do try and be a little more careful , Charlotte . ''
`` Yes 'm , '' said Charlotta meekly .
She dared not resent being called Charlotte just then .
`` And I'll tell you what I'll do , ma'am , to make up , I'll go and weed the garden .
Yes 'm , I'll do it beautiful . ''
`` And pull up more flowers than weeds , '' Miss Corona reflected mournfully .
But it did not matter ; nothing mattered .
She saw Charlotta sally forth into the garden with a determined , do-or-die expression surmounting her freckles , without feeling interest enough to go and make sure that she did not root out all the late asters in her tardy and wilfully postponed warfare on weeds .
This mood lasted until the afternoon .
Then Miss Corona , whose heart and thoughts were still down in the festive house in the valley , roused herself enough to go out and see what Charlotta was doing .
After finding out , she wandered idly about the rambling , old-fashioned place , which was full of nooks and surprises .
At every turn you might stumble on some clump or tangle of sweetness , showering elusive fragrance on the air , that you would never have suspected .
Nothing in the garden was planted quite where it should be , yet withal it was the most delightful spot imaginable .
Miss Corona pushed her way into the cherry-tree copse , and followed a tiny , overgrown path to a sunshiny corner beyond .
She had not been there since last summer ; the little path was getting almost impassable .
When she emerged from the cherry trees , somewhat rumpled and pulled about in hair and attire , but attended , as if by a benediction , by the aromatic breath of the mint she had trodden on , she gave a little cry and stood quite still , gazing at the rosebush that grew in the corner .
It was so large and woody that it seemed more like a tree than a bush , and it was snowed over with a splendour of large , pure white roses .
`` Dear life , '' whispered Miss Corona tremulously , as she tiptoed towards it .
`` The bride roses have bloomed again !
How very strange !
Why , there has not been a rose on that tree for twenty years . ''
The rosebush had been planted there by Corona 's great-grandmother , the lady of the green and yellow bowl .
It was a new variety , brought out from Scotland by Mary Gordon , and it bore large white roses which three generations of Gordon brides had worn on their wedding day .
It had come to be a family tradition among the Gordons that no luck would attend the bride who did not carry a white rose from Mary Gordon 's rose-tree .
Long years ago the tree had given up blooming , nor could all the pruning and care given it coax a single blossom from it .
Miss Corona , tinctured with the superstition apt to wait on a lonely womanhood , believed in her heart that the rosebush had a secret sympathy with the fortunes of the Gordon women .
She , the last of them on the old homestead , would never need the bride roses .
Wherefore , then , should the old tree bloom ?
And now , after all these years , it had flung all its long-hoarded sweetness into blossom again .
Miss Corona thrilled at the thought .
The rosebush had bloomed again for a Gordon bride , but Miss Corona was sure there was another meaning in it too ; she believed it foretokened some change in her own life , some rejuvenescence of love and beauty like to that of the ancient rose-tree .
She bent over its foam of loveliness almost reverently .
`` They have bloomed for Juliet 's wedding , '' she murmured .
`` A Gordon bride must wear the bride roses , indeed she must .
And this -- why , it is almost a miracle . ''
She ran , light-footedly as a girl , to the house for scissors and a basket .
She would send Juliet Gordon the bride roses .
Her cheeks were pink from excitement as she snipped them off .
How lovely they were !
How very large and fragrant !
It was as if all the grace and perfume and beauty and glory of those twenty lost summers were found here at once in them .
When Miss Corona had them ready , she went to the door and called , `` Charlotte !
Charlotte ! ''
Now Charlotta , having atoned to her conscience for the destruction of the green and yellow bowl by faithfully weeding the garden , a task which she hated above all else , was singing a hymn among the sweet peas , and her red braids were over her shoulders .
This ought to have warned Miss Corona , but Miss Corona was thinking of other things , and kept on calling patiently , while Charlotta weeded away for dear life , and seemed smitten with treble deafness .
After a time Miss Corona remembered and sighed .
She did hate to call the child that foolish name with its foreign sound .
Just as if plain `` Charlotte '' were not good enough for her , and much more suitable to `` Smith '' too !
Ordinarily Miss Corona would not have given in .
But the case was urgent ; she could not stand upon her dignity just now .
`` Charlotta ! ''
she called entreatingly .
Instantly Charlotta flew to the garden gate and raced up to the door .
`` Yes 'm , '' she said meekly .
`` You want me , Miss C'rona ? ''
`` Take this box down to Miss Juliet Gordon , and ask that it be given to her at once , '' said Miss Corona , `` don't loiter , Charlotta .
don't stop to pick gum in the grove , or eat sours in the dike , or poke sticks through the bridge , or -- '' But Charlotta had gone .
* * * * * Down in the valley , the other Gordon house was in a hum of excitement .
Upstairs Juliet had gone to her invalid mother 's room to show herself in her wedding dress to the pale little lady lying on the sofa .
She was a tall , stately young girl with the dark grey Gordon eyes and the pure creaminess of colouring , flawless as a lily petal .
Her face was a very sweet one , and the simple white dress she wore became her dainty , flowerlike beauty as nothing elaborate could have done .
`` I 'm not going to put on my veil until the last moment , '' she said laughingly .
`` I would feel married right away if I did .
And oh , Mother dear , isn't it too bad ?
My roses haven't come .
Father is back from the station , and they were not there .
I am so disappointed .
Romney ordered pure white roses because I said a Gordon bride must carry nothing else .
Come in '' -- as a knock sounded at the door .
Laura Burton , Juliet 's cousin and bridesmaid , entered with a box .
`` Juliet dear , the funniest little red-headed girl with the most enormous freckles has just brought this for you .
I haven't an idea where she came from ; she looked like a messenger from pixy-land . ''
Juliet opened the box and gave a cry .
`` Oh , Mother , look -- look !
What perfect roses !
Who could have sent them ?
Oh , here 's a note from -- from -- why , Mother , it 's from Cousin Corona . ''
`` My dear child , '' ran the letter in Miss Corona 's fine , old-fashioned script .
`` I am sending you the Gordon bride roses .
The rose-tree has bloomed for the first time in twenty years , my dear , and it must surely be in honour of your wedding day .
I hope you will wear them for , although I have never known you , I love you very much .
I was once a dear friend of your father 's .
Tell him to let you wear the roses I send for old times ' sake .
I wish you every happiness , my dear .
`` Your affectionate cousin , `` Corona Gordon . ''
`` Oh , how sweet and lovely of her ! ''
said Juliet gently , as she laid the letter down .
`` And to think she was not even invited !
I wanted to send her an invitation , but Father said it would be better not to -- she was so hard and bitter against us that she would probably regard it as an insult . ''
`` He must have been mistaken about her attitude , '' said Mrs. Gordon .
`` It certainly is a great pity she was not invited , but it is too late now .
An invitation sent two hours before the ceremony would be an insult indeed . ''
`` Not if the bride herself took it ! ''
exclaimed Juliet impulsively .
`` I'll go myself to Cousin Corona , and ask her to come to my wedding . ''
`` Go yourself !
Child , you can't do such a thing !
In that dress ... '' `` Go I must , Momsie .
Why , it 's only a three minutes ' walk .
I'll go up the hill by the old field-path , and no one will see me .
Oh , don't say a word -- there , I 'm gone ! ''
`` That child ! ''
sighed the mother protestingly , as she heard Juliet 's flying feet on the stairs .
`` What a thing for a bride to do ! ''
Juliet , with her white silken skirts caught up above grasses and dust , ran light-footedly through the green lowland fields and up the hill , treading for the first time the faint old field-path between the two homes , so long disused that it was now barely visible in its fringing grasses and star-dust of buttercups .
Where it ran into the spruce grove was a tiny gate which Miss Corona had always kept in good repair , albeit it was never used .
Juliet pushed up the rusty hasp and ran through .
Miss Corona was sitting alone in her shadowy parlour , hanging over a few of the bride roses with falling tears , when something tall and beautiful and white , came in like a blessing and knelt by her chair .
`` Cousin Corona , '' said a somewhat breathless bride , `` I have come to thank you for your roses and ask you to forgive us all for the old quarrel . ''
`` Dear child , '' said Miss Corona out of her amazement , `` there is nothing to forgive .
I've loved you all and longed for you .
Dear child , you have brought me great happiness . ''
`` And you must come to my wedding , '' cried Juliet .
`` Oh , you must -- or I shall think you have not really forgiven us .
You would never refuse the request of a bride , Cousin Corona .
We are queens on our wedding day , you know . ''
`` Oh , it 's not that , dear child -- but I 'm not dressed -- I -- '' `` I'll help you dress .
And I won't go back without you .
The guests and the minister must wait if necessary -- yes , even Romney must wait .
Oh , I want you to meet Romney .
Come , dear . ''
And Miss Corona went .
Charlotta and the bride got her into her grey silk and did her hair , and in a very short time she and Juliet were hurrying down the old field-path .
In the hollow Meredith Gordon met them .
`` Cousin Meredith , '' said Miss Corona tremulously .
`` Dear Corona . ''
He took both her hands in his , and kissed her heartily .
`` Forgive me for misunderstanding you so long .
I thought you hated us all . ''
Turning to Juliet , he said with a fatherly smile , `` What a terrible girl it is for having its own way !
Who ever heard of a Gordon bride doing such an unconventional thing ?
There , scamper off to the house before your guests come .
Laura has made your roses up into what she calls ' a dream of a bouquet , ' I'll take Cousin Corona up more leisurely . ''
`` Oh , I knew that something beautiful was going to happen when the old rose-tree bloomed , '' murmured Miss Corona happily .
