Good afternoon , Nora May .
I 'm real glad to see you .
I've been watching you coming down the hill and I hoping you 'd turn in at our gate .
Going to visit with me this afternoon ?
That's good .
I 'm feeling so happy and delighted and I've been hankering for someone to tell it all to .
Tell you about it ?
Well , I guess I might as well .
It ain't any breach of confidence .
You didn't know Anne Douglas ?
She taught school here three years ago , afore your folks moved over from Talcott .
She belonged up Montrose way and she was only eighteen when she came here to teach .
She boarded with us and her and me were the greatest chums .
She was just a sweet girl .
She was the prettiest teacher we ever had , and that's saying a good deal , for Springdale has always been noted for getting good-looking schoolmarms , just as Miller's Road is noted for its humly ones .
Anne had yards of brown wavy hair and big , dark blue eyes .
Her face was kind o ' pale , but when she smiled you would have to smile too , if you 'd been chief mourner at your own funeral .
She was a well-spring of joy in the house , and we all loved her .
Gilbert Martin began to drive her the very first week she was here .
Gilbert is my sister Julia's son , and a fine young fellow he is .
It ain't good manners to brag of your own relations , but I 'm always forgetting and doing it .
Gil was a great pet of mine .
He was so bright and nice-mannered everybody liked him .
Him and Anne were a fine-looking couple , Nora May .
Not but what they had their shortcomings .
Anne's nose was a mite too long and Gil had a crooked mouth .
Besides , they was both pretty proud and sperrited and high-strung .
But they thought an awful lot of each other .
It made me feel young again to see 'em .
Anne wasn't a mossel vain , but nights she expected Gil she 'd prink for hours afore her glass , fixing her hair this way and that , and trying on all her good clothes to see which become her most .
I used to love her for it .
And I used to love to see the way Gil's face would light up when she came into a room or place where he was .
Amanda Perkins , she says to me once , `` Anne Douglas and Gil Martin are most terrible struck on each other . ''
And she said it in a tone that indicated that it was a dreadful disgraceful and unbecoming state of affairs .
Amanda had a disappointment once and it soured her .
I immediately responded , `` Yes , they are most terrible struck on each other , '' and I said it in a tone that indicated I thought it a most beautiful and lovely thing that they should be so .
And so it was .
You 're rather too young to be thinking of such things , Nora May , but you'll remember my words when the time comes .
Another nephew of mine , James Ebenezer Lawson -- he calls himself James E. back there in town , and I don't blame him , for I never could stand Ebenezer for a name myself ; but that's neither here nor there .
Well , he said their love was idyllic , I ain't very sure what that means .
I looked it up in the dictionary after James Ebenezer left -- I wouldn't display my ignorance afore him -- but I can't say that I was much the wiser for it .
Anyway , it meant something real nice ; I was sure of that by the way James Ebenezer spoke and the wistful look in his eyes .
James Ebenezer isn't married ; he was to have been , and she died a month afore the wedding day .
He was never the same man again .
Well , to get back to Gilbert and Anne .
When Anne's school year ended in June she resigned and went home to get ready to be married .
The wedding was to be in September , and I promised Anne faithful I 'd go over to Montrose in August for two weeks and help her to get her quilts ready .
Anne thought that nobody could quilt like me .
I was as tickled as a girl at the thought of visiting with Anne for two weeks , but I never went ; things happened before August .
I don't know rightly how the trouble began .
Other folks -- jealous folks -- made mischief .
Anne was thirty miles away and Gilbert couldn't see her every day to keep matters clear and fair .
Besides , as I've said , they were both proud and high-sperrited .
The upshot of it was they had a terrible quarrel and the engagement was broken .
When two people don't care overly much for each other , Nora May , a quarrel never amounts to much between them , and it's soon made up .
But when they love each other better than life it cuts so deep and hurts so much that nine times out of ten they won't ever forgive each other .
The more you love anybody , Nora May , the more he can hurt you .
To be sure , you 're too young to be thinking of such things .
It all came like a thunderclap on Gil's friends here at Greendale , because we hadn't ever suspected things were going wrong .
The first thing we knew was that Anne had gone up west to teach school again at St. Mary's , eighty miles away , and Gilbert , he went out to Manitoba on a harvest excursion and stayed there .
It just about broke his parents ' hearts .
He was their only child and they just worshipped him .
Gil and Anne both wrote to me off and on , but never a word , not so much as a name , did they say of each other .
I 'd ` a ' writ and asked 'em the rights of the fuss if I could , in hopes of patching it up , but I can't write now -- my hand is too shaky -- and mebbe it was just as well , for meddling is terribly risky work in a love trouble , Nora May .
Ninety-nine times out of a hundred the last state of a meddler and them she meddles with is worse than the first .
So I just set tight and said nothing , while everybody else in the clan was talking Anne and Gil sixty words to the minute .
Well , last birthday morning I was feeling terrible disperrited .
I had made up my mind that my birthday was always to be a good thing for other people , and there didn't seem one blessed thing I could do to make anybody glad .
Emma Matilda and George and the children were all well and happy and wanted for nothing that I could give them .
I begun to be afraid I 'd lived long enough , Nora May .
When a woman gets to the point where she can't give a gift of joy to anyone , there ain't much use in her living .
I felt real old and worn out and useless .
I was sitting here under these very trees -- they was just budding out in leaf then , as young and cheerful as if they wasn't a hundred years old .
And I sighed right out loud and said , `` Oh , Grandpa Holland , it's time I was put away up on the hill there with you . ''
And with that the gate banged and there was Nancy Jane Whitmore's boy , Sam , with two letters for me .
One was from Anne up at St. Mary's and the other was from Gil out in Manitoba .
I read Anne's first .
She just struck right into things in the first paragraph .
She said her year at St. Mary's was nearly up , and when it was she meant to quit teaching and go away to New York and learn to be a trained nurse .
She said she was just broken-hearted about Gilbert , and would always love him to the day of her death .
But she knew he didn't care anything more about her after the way he had acted , and there was nothing left for her in life but to do something for other people , and so on and so on , for twelve mortal pages .
Anne is a fine writer , and I just cried like a babe over that letter , it was so touching , although I was enjoying myself hugely all the time , I was so delighted to find out that Anne loved Gilbert still .
I was getting skeered she didn't , her letters all winter had been so kind of jokey and frivolous , all about the good times she was having , and the parties she went to , and the new dresses she got .
New dresses !
When I read that letter of Anne's , I knew that all the purple and fine linen in the world was just like so much sackcloth and ashes to her as long as Gilbert was sulking out on a prairie farm .
Well , I wiped my eyes and polished up my specs , but I might have spared myself the trouble , for in five minutes , Nora May , there was I sobbing again ; over Gilbert's letter .
By the most curious coincidence he had opened his heart to me too .
Being a man , he wasn't so discursive as Anne ; he said his say in four pages , but I could read the heartache between the lines .
He wrote that he was going to Klondike and would start in a month's time .
He was sick of living now that he 'd lost Anne .
He said he loved her better than his life and always would , and could never forget her , but he knew she didn't care anything about him now after the way she 'd acted , and he wanted to get as far away from her and the torturing thought of her as he could .
So he was going to Klondike -- going to Klondike , Nora May , when his mother was writing to him to come home every week and Anne was breaking her heart for him at St. Mary's .
Well , I folded up them letters and , says I , `` Grandpa Holland , I guess my birthday celebration is here ready to hand . ''
I thought real hard .
I couldn't write myself to explain to those two people that they each thought the world of each other still -- my hands are too stiff ; and I couldn't get anyone else to write because I couldn't let out what they 'd told me in confidence .
So I did a mean , dishonourable thing , Nora May .
I sent Anne's letter to Gilbert and Gilbert's to Anne .
I asked Emma Matilda to address them , and Emma Matilda did it and asked no questions .
I brought her up that way .
Then I settled down to wait .
In less than a month Gilbert's mother had a letter from him saying that he was coming home to settle down and marry Anne .
He arrived home yesterday and last night Anne came to Springdale on her way home from St. Mary's .
They came to see me this morning and said things to me I ain't going to repeat because they would sound fearful vain .
They were so happy that they made me feel as if it was a good thing to have lived eighty years in a world where folks could be so happy .
They said their new joy was my birthday gift to them .
The wedding is to be in September and I 'm going to Montrose in August to help Anne with her quilts .
I don't think anything will happen to prevent this time -- no quarrelling , anyhow .
Those two young creatures have learned their lesson .
You 'd better take it to heart too , Nora May .
It's less trouble to learn it at second hand .
Don't you ever quarrel with your real beau -- it don't matter about the sham ones , of course .
Don't take offence at trifles or listen to what other people tell you about him -- outsiders , that is , that want to make mischief .
What you think about him is of more importance than what they do .
To be sure , you 're too young yet to be thinking of such things at all .
But just mind what old Aunt Susanna told you when your time comes .
