Way down beside the Laughing Brook grew a little bush .
It looked a whole lot like other little bushes all around it .
But really it was quite different , as you shall see .
When in the spring warm , jolly , round Mr. Sun brought back the birds and set them singing , when the little flowers popped their heads out of the ground to have a look around , then all the little bushes put out their green leaves .
This little bush of which I am telling you put out its green leaves with the rest .
The little leaves grew bigger and bigger on all the little bushes .
By and by on some of the other little bushes , little brown buds began to appear and grow and grow .
Then on more and more of the little bushes the little brown buds came and grew and grew .
But on this little bush of which I am telling you no little brown buds appeared .
The little bush felt very sad indeed .
Pretty soon all the little brown buds on the other little brown bushes burst their brown coats , and then all the little bushes were covered with little flowers .
Some were white and some were yellow and some were pink ; and the air was filled with the sweet odor of all the little flowers .
It brought the bees from far , far away to gather the honey , and all the little bushes were very happy indeed .
But the little bush of which I am telling you had no little flowers , for you see it had had no little buds , and it felt lonely and shut away from the other little bushes , and very sad indeed .
But it bravely kept on growing and growing and growing .
Its little leaves grew bigger and bigger and bigger , and it tried its best not to mind because it had no little flowers .
Then one by one , and two by two , and three by three , and finally in whole showers , the little flowers of all the other little bushes fell off , and they looked very much like the little bush of which I am telling you , so that the little bush no longer felt sad .
All summer long all the little bushes grew and grew and grew .
The birds came and built their nests among them .
Peter Rabbit and his brothers and sisters scampered under them .
The butterflies flew over them .
By and by came the fall , and with the fall came Jack Frost .
He went about among the little bushes , pinching the leaves .
Then the little green leaves turned to brown and red and yellow and pretty soon they fluttered down to the ground , the Merry Little Breezes blew them about and all the little bushes were bare .
They had no leaves at all to cover their little naked brown limbs .
The little bush of which I am telling you lost its leaves with the rest .
But all the summer long this little bush had been growing some of those little brown buds , which the other bushes had had in the spring , and now , when all the other little bushes had lost all the green leaves , and had nothing at all upon their little brown twigs , behold !
one beautiful day , the little bush of which I am telling you was covered with gold , for each little brown bud had burst its little brown coat and there was a beautiful little yellow flower .
Such a multitude of these little yellow flowers !
They covered the little bush from top to bottom .
Then the little bush felt very happy indeed , for it was the only bush which had any flowers .
And every one who passed that way stopped to look at it and to praise it .
Colder grew the weather and colder .
Johnny Chuck tucked himself away to sleep all winter .
Grandfather Frog went deep , deep down in the mud , not to come out again until spring .
By and by the little yellow flowers dropped off the little bush , just as the other little flowers in spring had dropped off the other bushes .
But they left behind them tiny little packages , one for every little flower that had been on the bush .
All winter long these little packages clung to the little bush .
In the spring when the little leaves burst forth in all the little bushes , these little packages on the little bush of which I am telling you grew and grew and grew .
While the other little bushes had a lot of little flowers as they had had the year before , these little brown packages on the little bush of which I am telling you kept on growing .
And they comforted the little bush because it felt that it really had something worth while .
All the summer long the little brown packages grew and grew until they looked like little nuts .
When the fall came again and all the little leaves dropped off all the little bushes , and the little bush of which I am telling you was covered with another lot of little yellow flowers and was very happy , then these little brown nuts , one bright autumn day , suddenly popped open !
And out of each one flew two brown shiny little seeds .
You never saw such a popping and a snapping and a jumping !
Pop !
pop !
snap !
snap !
hippetty hop !
they went , faster than the corn pops in the corn popper .
Reddy Fox , who always is suspicious , thought some one was shooting at him .
Down on the ground fell the little brown shining seeds and tucked themselves into the warm earth under the warm leaves , there to stay all winter long .
And when the third spring came with all its little birds and all its little flowers and the warm sunshine , every one of these little brown seeds which had tucked themselves into the warm earth , burst its little brown skin , and up into the sunshine came a little green plant , which would grow and grow and grow , and by and by become just like the little bush I am telling you about .
When the little bush looked down and saw all these little green children popping out of the ground , it was very happy indeed , for it knew that it would no longer be lonely .
It no longer felt bad when all the other bushes were covered with flowers , for it knew that by and by when all the other little bushes had lost all their leaves and all their flowers , then would come its turn , and it knew that for a whole year its little brown children would be held safe on its branches .
Now , what do you think is the name of this little bush ?
Why , it is the witch hazel .
And sometime when you fall down and bump yourself hard grandma will go to the medicine closet and will bring out a bottle , and from that bottle she will pour something on that little sore place and it will make it feel better .
Do you know what it is ?
It is the gift of the witch hazel bush to little boys and big men to make them feel better when they are hurt .
