A late September wind from the northwest was sweeping over the waters of Racicot Harbour .
It blew in , strong with the tang of the salt seas , past the grim lighthouse rock on the one hand and the sandbars on the other , up the long , narrow funnel of darkly blue water , until it whistled among the masts of the boats at anchor and among the stovepipe chimneys of the fishing village .
It was a wind that sang and piped and keened of many things -- but what it sang to each listener was only what was in that listener 's heart .
And Nora Shelley , standing at the door of her father 's bleached cottage on the grey sands , heard a new strain in it .
The wind had sung often to her of the outer world she longed for , but there had never been the note of fulfilment in it before .
There 's a new life beyond , Nora , whistled the wind .
A good life -- and it 's yours for the taking .
You have but to put out your hand and all you've wished for will be in your grasp .
Nora leaned out from the door to meet the wind .
She loved that northwest gale ; it was a staunch old friend of hers .
Very slim and straight was Nora , with a skin as white as the foam flakes crisping over the sands , and eyes of the tremulous , haunting blue that deepens on the water after a fair sunset .
But her hair was as black as midnight , and her lips blossomed out with a ripe redness against the uncoloured purity of her face .
She was far and away the most beautiful of the harbour girls , but hardly the most popular .
Men and women alike thought her proud .
Even her friends felt themselves called upon to make excuses for her unlikeness to themselves .
Nora had dosed the door behind her to shut in the voices .
She wanted to be alone with the wind while she made her decision .
Before her the sandy shingle , made firm by a straggling growth of some pale sea-ivy , sloped down to the sapphire cup of the harbour .
Around her were the small , uncouth houses of the village -- no smaller or more uncouth than the one which was her home -- with children playing noisily on the paths between them .
The mackerel boats curtsied and nodded outside ; beyond them the sharp tip of Sandy Point was curdled white with seagulls .
Down at the curve of the cove a group of men were laughing and talking loudly in front of French Joe 's fish-house .
This was the life that she had always known .
Across the harbour , on a fir-fringed headland , stood Dalveigh .
John Cameron , childless millionaire , had built a summer cottage on that point two years ago , and given it the name of the old ancestral estate in Scotland .
To the Racicot fishing folk the house and grounds were as a dream of enchantment made real .
Few of them had ever seen anything like it .
Nora Shelley knew Dalveigh well .
She had been the Camerons ' guest many times that summer , finding in the luxury and beauty of their surroundings something that entered with a strange aptness into her own nature .
It was as if it were hers by right of fitness .
And this was the life that might be hers , did she so choose .
In reality , her choice was already made , and she knew it .
But it pleased her to pretend for a little time that it was not , and to dally tenderly with-the old loves and emotions that tugged at her heart and clamoured to be remembered .
Within , in the low-ceilinged living room , with its worn , uneven floor and its blackened walls hung with fish nets and oilskins , four people were sitting .
John Cameron and his wife were given the seats of honour in the middle of the room .
Mrs. Cameron was a handsome , well-dressed woman , with an expression that was discontented and , at times , petulant .
Yet her face had a good deal of plain common sense in it , and not even the most critical of the Racicot folks could say that she `` put on airs . ''
Her husband was a small , white-haired man , with a fresh , young-looking face .
He was popular in Racicot , for he mingled freely with the sailors and fishermen .
Moreover , Dalveigh was an excellent market for fresh mackerel .
Nathan Shelley , in his favourite corner behind the stove , sat lurching forward with his hands on his knees .
He had laid aside his pipe out of deference to Mrs. Cameron , and it was hard for him to think without it .
He wished his wife would go to work ; it seemed uncanny to see her idle .
She had sat idle only once that he remembered -- the day they had brought Ned Shelley in , dank and dripping , after the August storm ten years before .
Mrs. Shelley sat by the crooked , small-paned window and looked out down the harbour .
The coat she had been patching for her husband when the Camerons came still lay in her lap , and she had folded her hands upon it .
She was a big woman , slow of speech and manner , with a placid , handsome face -- a face that had not visibly stirred even when she had heard the Camerons ' proposition .
They wanted Nora -- these rich people who had so much in life wanted the blossom of girlhood that had never bloomed for them .
John Cameron pleaded his cause well .
`` We will look on her as our own , '' he said at last .
`` We have grown to love her this summer .
She is beautiful and clever -- she has a right to more than Racicot can give her .
You have other children -- we are childless .
And we do not take her from you utterly .
You will see her every summer when we come to Dalveigh . ''
`` It won't be the same thing quite , '' said Nathan Shelley drily .
`` She'll belong to your life then -- not ours .
And no matter how many young ones folks has , they don't want to lose none of 'em .
But I dunno as we ought to let our feelings stand in Nora 's light .
She 's clever , and she 's been hankering for more 'n we can ever give her .
I was the same way once .
Lord , how I raged at Racicot !
I broke away finally -- went to a city and got work .
But it wasn't no use .
I 'd left it too long .
The sea had got into my blood .
I toughed it out for two years , and then I had to come back .
I didn't want to , mark you , but I had to come .
Been here ever since .
But maybe ` twill be different with the girl .
She 's younger than I was ; if the hankering for the sea and the life of the shore hasn't got into her too deep , maybe she'll be able to cut loose for good .
But you don't know how the sea calls to one of its own . ''
Cameron smiled .
He thought that this dry old salt was a bit of a poet in his own way .
Very likely Nora got her ability and originality from him .
There did not seem to be a great deal in the phlegmatic , good-looking mother .
`` What say , wife ? ''
asked Shelley at last .
His wife had said in her slow way , `` Leave it to Nora , '' and to Nora it was left .
When she came in at last , her face stung to radiant beauty by the northwest wind , she found it hard to tell them after all .
She looked at her mother appealingly .
`` Is it go or stay , girl , '' demanded her father brusquely .
`` I think I'll go , '' said Nora slowly .
Then , catching sight of her mother 's face , she ran to her and flung her arms about her .
`` But I'll never forget you , Mother , '' she cried .
`` I'll love you always -- you and Father . ''
Her mother loosened the clinging arms and pushed her gently towards the Camerons .
`` Go to them , '' she said calmly .
`` You belong to them now . ''
The news spread quickly over Racicot .
Before night everyone on the harbour shore knew that the Camerons were going to adopt Nora Shelley and take her away with them .
There was much surprise and more envy .
The shore women tossed their heads .
`` Reckon Nora is in great feather , '' they said .
`` She always did think herself better than anyone else .
Nate Shelley and his wife spoiled her ridiculous .
Wonder what Rob Fletcher thinks of it ? ''
Nora asked her brother to tell the news to Rob Fletcher himself , but Merran Andrews was before him .
She was at Rob before he had fairly landed , when the fishing boats came in at sunset .
`` Have you heard the news , Rob ?
Nora 's going away to be a fine lady .
The Camerons have been daft about her all summer , and now they are going to adopt her . ''
Merran wanted Rob herself .
He was a big , handsome fellow , and well-off -- the pick of the harbour men in every way .
He had slighted her for Nora , and it pleased her to stab him now , though she meant to be nice to him later on .
He turned white under his tan , but he did not choose to make a book of his heart for Merran 's bold black eyes to read .
`` It 's a great thing for her , '' he answered calmly .
`` She was meant for better things than can be found at Racicot . ''
`` She was always too good for common folks , if that is what you mean , '' said Merran spitefully .
Nora and Rob did not meet until the next evening , when she rowed herself home from Dalveigh .
He was at the shore to tie up her boat and help her out .
They walked up the sands together in the heart of the autumn sunset , with the northwest wind whistling in their ears and the great star of the lighthouse gleaming wanly out against the golden sky .
Nora felt uncomfortable , and resented it .
Rob Fletcher was nothing to her ; he never had been anything but the good friend to whom she told her strange thoughts and longings .
Why should her heart ache over him ?
She wished he would talk , but he strode along in silence , with his fine head drooping a little .
`` I suppose you have heard that I am going away , Rob ? ''
she said at last .
He nodded .
`` Yes , I've heard it from a hundred mouths , more or less , '' he answered , not looking at her .
`` It 's a splendid thing for me , isn't it ? ''
dared Nora .
`` Well , I don't know , '' he said slowly .
`` Looking at it from the outside , it seems so .
But from the inside it manyn't look the same .
Do you think you'll be able to cut twenty years of a life out of your heart without any pain ? ''
`` Oh , I'll be homesick , if that is what you mean , '' said Nora petulantly .
`` Of course I'll be that at first .
I expect it -- but people get over that .
And it is not as if I were going away for good .
I'll be back next summer -- every summer . ''
`` It 'll be different , '' said Rob stubbornly , thinking as old Nathan Shelley had thought .
`` you'll be a fine lady -- oh , all the better for that perhaps -- but you'll not be the same .
No , no , the new life will change you ; not all at once , maybe , but in the end .
you'll be one of them , not one of us .
But will you be happy ?
That 's the question I 'm asking . ''
In anyone else Nora would have resented this .
But she never felt angry with Rob .
`` I think I shall be , '' she said thoughtfully .
`` And , anyway , I must go .
It doesn't seem as if I could help myself if I wanted to .
Something -- out beyond there -- is calling me , always has been calling me ever since I was a tiny girl and found out there was a big world far away from Racicot .
And it always seemed to me that I would find a way to it some day .
That was why I kept going to school long after the other girls stopped .
Mother thought I 'd better stop home ; she said too much book learning would make me discontented and too different from the people I had to live along .
But Father let me go ; he understood ; he said I was like him when he was young .
I learned everything and read everything I could .
It seems to me as if I had been walking along a narrow pathway all my life .
And now it seems as if a gate were opened before me and I can pass through into a wider world .
It isn't the luxury and the pleasure or the fine house and dresses that tempt me , though the people here think so -- even Mother thinks so .
But it is not .
It 's just that something seems to be in my grasp that I've always longed for , and I must go -- Rob , I must go . ''
`` Yes , if you feel like that you must go , '' he answered , looking down at her troubled face gently .
`` And it 's best for you to go , Nora .
I believe that , and I 'm not so selfish as not to be able to hope that you'll find all you long for .
But it will change you all the more if it is so .
Nora !
Nora !
Whatever am I going to do without you ! ''
The sudden passion bursting out in his tone frightened her .
`` don't , Rob , don't !
And you won't miss me long .
There 's many another . ''
`` No , there isn't .
don't fling me that dry bone of comfort .
There 's no other , and never has been any other -- none but you , Nora , and well you know it . ''
`` I 'm sorry , '' she said faintly .
`` You needn't be , '' said Rob grimly .
`` After all , I 'd rather love you than not , hurt as it will .
I never had much hope of getting you to listen to me , so there 's no great disappointment there .
You 're too good for me -- I've always known that .
A girl that is fit to mate with the Camerons is far above Rob Fletcher , fisherman . ''
`` I never had such a thought , '' protested Nora .
`` I know it , '' he said , casing himself up in his quietness again .
`` But it 's so -- and now I've got to lose you .
But there 'll never be any other for me , Nora . ''
He left her at her father 's door .
She watched his stalwart figure out of sight around the point , and raged to find tears in her eyes and a bitter yearning in her heart .
For a moment she repented -- she would stay -- she could not go .
Then over the harbour flashed out the lights of Dalveigh .
The life behind them glittered , allured , beckoned .
Nay , she must go on -- she had made her choice .
There was no turning back now .
* * * * * Nora Shelley went away with the Camerons , and Dalveigh was deserted .
Winter came down on Racicot Harbour , and the colony of fisher folk at its head gave themselves over to the idleness of the season -- a time for lounging and gossipping and long hours of lazy contentment smoking in the neighbours ' chimney corners , when tales were told of the sea and the fishing .
The Harbour laid itself out to be sociable in winter .
There was no time for that in summer .
People had to work eighteen hours out of the twenty-four then .
In the winter there was spare time to laugh and quarrel , woo and wed and -- were a man so minded -- dream , as did Rob Fletcher in his loneliness .
In a Racicot winter much was made of small things .
The arrival of Nora Shelley 's weekly letter to her father and mother was an event in the village .
The post-mistress in the Cove store spread the news that it had come , and that night the Shelley kitchen would be crowded .
Isobel Shelley , Nora 's younger sister , read the letter aloud by virtue of having gone to school long enough to be able to pronounce the words and tell where the places named were situated .
The Camerons had spent the autumn in New York and had then gone south for the winter .
Nora wrote freely of her new life .
In the beginning she admitted great homesickness , but after the first few letters she made no further mention of that .
She wrote little of herself , but she described fully the places she had visited , the people she had met , the wonderful things she had seen .
She sent affectionate messages to all her old friends and asked after all her old interests .
But the letters came to be more and more like those of a stranger and one apart from the Racicot life , and the father and mother felt it .
`` She 's changing , '' muttered old Nathan .
`` It had to be so -- it 's well for her that it is so -- but it hurts .
She ain't ours any more .
we've lost the girl , wife , lost her forever . ''
Rob Fletcher always came and listened to the letters in silence while the others buzzed and commented .
Rob , so the Harbour folk said , was much changed .
He had grown unsociable and preferred to stay home and read books rather than go a-visiting as did others .
The Harbour folk shook their heads over this .
There was something wrong with a man who read books when there was a plenty of other amusements .
Jacob Radnor had read books all one winter and had drowned himself in the spring -- jumped overboard from his dory at the herring nets .
And that was what came of books , mark you .
The Camerons came later to Dalveigh the next summer , on account of John Cameron 's health , which was not good .
It was the first of August before a host of servants came to put Dalveigh in habitable order , and a week later the family came .
They brought a houseful of guests with them .
At sunset on the day of her arrival Nora Shelley looked out cross the harbour to the fishing village .
She was tired after her journey , and she had not meant to go over until the morning , but now she knew she must go at once .
Her mother was over there ; the old life called to her ; the northwest wind swept up the channel and whistled alluringly to her at the window of her luxurious room .
It brought to her the tang of the salt wastes and filled her heart with a great , bitter-sweet yearning .
She was more beautiful than ever .
In the year that had passed she had blossomed out to a gracious fulfilment of womanhood .
Even the Camerons had wondered at her swift adaptation to her new surroundings .
She seemed to have put Racicot behind her as one puts by an old garment .
In everything she had held her own royally .
Her adopted parents were proud of her beauty and her nameless , untamed charm .
They had lavished every indulgence upon her .
In those few short months she had lived more keenly and fully than in all her life before .
The Nora Shelley who went away was not , so it would seem , the Nora Shelley who came back .
But when she looked from her window to the waves and saw the star of the lighthouse and the blaze of the sunset in the window of the fishing-houses and heard the summons of the wind , something broke loose in her soul and overwhelmed her , like a wave of the sea .
She must go at once -- at once -- at once .
Not a moment could she wait .
She was dressed for dinner , but with tingling fingers she threw off her costly gown and put on her dark travelling suit again .
She left her hair as it was and knotted a crimson scarf about her head .
She would slip away quietly to the boathouse , get Davy to launch the little sailboat for her -- and then for a fleet skim over the harbour before that glorious wind !
She hoped not to be seen , but Mrs. Cameron met her in the hall .
`` Nora ! ''
she said in astonishment .
`` Oh , I must go , Aunty !
I must go ! ''
the girl cried feverishly .
She was afraid Mrs. Cameron would try to prevent her going , and all at once she knew that she could not bear that .
`` Must go ?
Where ?
Dinner is almost ready , and -- '' `` Oh , I don't want any dinner .
I 'm going home -- I will sail over . ''
`` My dear child , don't be foolish .
It 's too late to go over the harbour tonight .
They won't be expecting you .
Wait until the morning . ''
`` No -- oh , you don't understand .
I must go -- I must !
My mother is over there . ''
Something in the girl 's last sentence or the tone in which it was uttered brought a look of pain to Mrs. Cameron 's face .
But she made no further attempt to dissuade her .
`` Well , if you must .
But you can not go alone -- no , Nora , I can not allow it .
The wind is too high and it is too late for you to go over by yourself .
Clark Bryant will take you . ''
Nora would have protested but she knew it would be in vain .
She submitted somewhat sullenly and walked down to the shore in silence .
Clark Bryant strode beside her , humouring her mood .
He was a tall , stout man , with an ugly , clever , sarcastic face .
He was as clever as he looked , and was one of the younger millionaires whom John Cameron drew around him in the development of his huge financial schemes .
Bryant was in love with Nora .
This was why the Camerons had asked him to join their August house party at Dalveigh , and why he had accepted .
It had occurred to Nora that this was the case , but as yet she had never troubled to think the situation over seriously .
She liked Clark Bryant well enough , but just at the moment he was in the way .
She did not want to take him over to Racicot -- just why she could not have explained .
There was in her no snobbish shame of her humble home .
But he did not belong there ; he was an alien , and she wished to go back to it for the first time alone .
At the boathouse Davy launched the small sailboat and Nora took the tiller .
She knew every inch of the harbour .
As the sail filled before the wind and the boat sprang across the upcurling waves , her brief sullenness fell away from her .
She no longer resented Clark Bryant 's presence -- she forgot it .
He was no more to her than the mast by which he stood .
The spell of the sea and the wind surged into her heart and filled it with wild happiness and measureless content .
Over yonder , where the lights gleamed on the darkening shore under the high-sprung arch of pale golden sky , was home .
How the wind whistled to welcome her back !
The lash of it against her face -- the flick of salt spray on her lips -- the swing of the boat as it cut through the racing crests -- how glorious it all was !
Clark Bryant watched her , understanding all at once that he was nothing to her , that he had no part or lot in her heart .
He was as one forgotten and left behind .
And how lovely , how desirable she was !
He had never seen her look so beautiful .
The shawl had slipped down to her shoulders and her head rose out of it like some magnificent flower out of a crimson calyx .
The masses of her black hair lifted from her face in the rush of the wind and swayed back again like rich shadows .
Her lips were stung scarlet with the sea 's sharp caresses , and her eyes , large and splendid , looked past him unseeing to the harbour lights of Racicot .
When they swung in by the wharf Nora sprang from the boat before Bryant had time to moor it .
Pausing for an instant , she called down to him , carelessly , `` don't wait for me .
I shall not go back tonight . ''
Then she caught her shawl around her head and almost ran up the wharf and along the shore .
No one was abroad , for it was supper hour in Racicot .
In the Shelley kitchen the family was gathered around the table , when the door was flung open and Nora stood on the threshold .
For a moment they gazed at her as at an apparition .
They had not known the precise day of her coming and were not aware of the Camerons ' arrival at Dalveigh .
`` It 's the girl herself .
It 's Nora , '' said old Nathan , rising from his bench .
`` Mother ! ''
cried Nora .
She ran across the room and buried her face in her mother 's breast , sobbing .
When the news spread , the Racicot people crowded in to see Nora until the house was full .
They spent a noisy , merry , whole-hearted evening of the old sort .
The men smoked and most of the women knitted while they talked .
They were pleased to find that Nora did not put on any airs .
Old Jonas Myers bluntly told her that he didn't see as her year among rich folks had done her much good , after all .
`` You 're just the same as when you went away , '' he said .
`` They haven't made a fine lady of you .
Folks here thought you 'd be something wonderful . ''
Nora laughed .
She was glad that they did not find her changed .
Old Nathan chuckled in his dry way .
There was a difference in the girl , and he saw it , though the neighbours did not , but it was not the difference he had feared .
His daughter was not utterly taken from him yet .
Nora sat by her mother and was happy .
But as the evening wore away she grew very quiet , and watched the door with something piteous in her eyes .
Old Nathan noticed it and thought she was tired .
He gave the curious neighbours a good-natured hint , and they presently withdrew .
When they had all gone Nora went out to the door alone .
The wind had died down and the shore , gemmed with its twinkling lights , was very still , for it was too late an hour for Racicot folk to be abroad in the mackerel season .
The moon was rising and the harbour was a tossing expanse of silver waves .
The mellow light fell on a tall figure lurking at the angle of the road that led past the Shelley cottage .
Nora saw and recognized it .
She flew down the sandy slope with outstretched hands .
`` Rob -- Rob ! ''
`` Nora ! ''
he said huskily , holding out his hand .
But she flung herself on his breast and clung to him , half laughing , half crying .
`` Oh , Rob !
I've been looking for you all the evening .
Every time there was a step I said to myself , ` That is Rob , now . '
And when the door opened to let in another , my heart died within me .
I dared not even ask after you for fear of what they might tell me .
Why didn't you come ? ''
`` I didn't know that I 'd be welcome , '' he whispered , holding her closer to him .
`` I've been hanging about thinking to get a glimpse of you unbeknown .
I thought maybe you wouldn't want to see me tonight . ''
`` Not want to see you !
Oh , Rob , this evening at Dalveigh , when I looked across to Racicot , it was you I thought of before all -- even before Mother . ''
She drew back and looked at him with her soul in her eyes .
`` What a splendid fellow you are -- how handsome you are , Rob ! ''
she cried .
All the reserve of womanhood fell away from her in the inrush of emotions .
For the moment she was a child again , telling out her thoughts with all a child 's frankness .
`` I've been in a dream this past year -- a lovely dream -- a fair dream , but only a dream , after all .
And now I've wakened .
And you are part of the wakening -- the best part !
Oh , to think I never knew before ! ''
`` Knew what , my girl ? ''
He had her close against his heart now ; the breath of her lips mingled with his , but he would not kiss her yet .
`` That I loved you , '' she whispered back .
`` Oh , Rob , you are all the world to me .
I belong to you and the sea .
But I never knew it until I crossed the harbour tonight .
Then I knew -- it came to me all at once , like a flood of understanding .
I knew I could never go away again -- that I must stay here forever where I could hear that call of wind and waves .
The new life was good -- good -- but it could not go deep enough .
And when you did not come I knew what was in my heart for you as well . ''
* * * * * That night Nora lay beside her sisters in the tiny room that looked out on the harbour .
The younger girls slept soundly , but Nora kept awake to listen to the laughter of the wind outside , and con over what she and Rob had said to each other .
There was no blot on her happiness save a sorry wonder what the Camerons would say when they knew .
`` They will think me ungrateful and fickle , '' she sighed .
`` They don't know that I can't help it even if I would .
They will never understand . ''
Nor did they .
When Nora told them that she was going back to Racicot , they laughed at her kindly at first , treating it as the passing whim of a homesick girl .
Later , when they came to understand that she meant it , they were grieved and angry .
There were scenes of pleading and tears and reproaches .
Nora cried bitterly in Mrs. Cameron 's arms , but stood rock-firm .
She could never go back to them -- never .
They appealed to Nathan Shelley finally , but he refused to say anything .
`` It can't be altered , '' he told them .
`` The sea has called her and she'll listen to naught else .
I 'm sorry enough for the girl 's own sake .
It would have been better for her if she could have cut loose from it all and lived your life , I dare say .
But you've made a fair trial and it 's of no use .
I know what 's in her heart -- it was in mine once -- and I'll say no word of rebuke to her .
She 's free to go or stay as she chooses -- just as free as she was last year . ''
Mrs. Cameron made one more appeal to Nora .
She told the girl bitterly that she was ungrateful .
`` I 'm not that , '' said Nora with quivering lips .
`` I love you , and I 'm grateful to you .
But your life isn't for me , after all .
I thought it was -- I longed so for it .
And I loved it , too -- I love it yet .
But there 's something stronger in me that holds me here . ''
`` I don't think you realize what you are doing , Nora .
You have been a little homesick and you are glad to be back .
But after we have gone and you must settle into the old Racicot life again , you will not be contented .
You will find that your life with us will have unfitted you for this .
There will be no real place for you here -- nothing for you to do .
You will be as a stranger here . ''
`` Oh , no .
I am going to marry Rob Fletcher , '' said Nora proudly .
`` Marry Rob Fletcher !
And you might have married Clark Bryant , Nora ! ''
Nora shook her head .
`` That could never have been .
I thought it might once -- but I know better now .
You see , I love Rob . ''
There did not seem to be anything more to say after that .
Mrs. Cameron did not try to say anything .
She went away in sorrow .
Nora cried bitterly after she had gone .
But there were no tears in her eyes that night when she walked on the shore with Rob Fletcher .
The wind whistled around them , and the stars came out in the great ebony dome of the sky over the harbour .
Laughter and song of the fishing folk were behind them , and the deep , solemn call of the sea before .
Over the harbour gleamed the score of lights at Dalveigh .
Rob looked from them to Nora .
`` Do you think you'll ever regret yon life , my girl ? ''
`` Never , Rob .
It seems to me now like a beautiful garment put on for a holiday and worn easily and pleasantly for a time .
But I've put it off now , and put on workaday clothes again .
It is only a week since I left Dalveigh , but it seems long ago .
Listen to the wind , Rob !
It is singing of the good days to be for you and me . ''
He bent over and kissed her .
`` My own dear lass ! ''
he said softly .
