Spencervale gossip always said that `` Old Lady Lloyd '' was rich and mean and proud .
Gossip , as usual , was one-third right and two-thirds wrong .
Old Lady Lloyd was neither rich nor mean ; in reality she was pitifully poor -- so poor that `` Crooked Jack '' Spencer , who dug her garden and chopped her wood for her , was opulent by contrast , for he , at least , never lacked three meals a day , and the Old Lady could sometimes achieve no more than one .
But she WAS very proud -- so proud that she would have died rather than let the Spencervale people , among whom she had queened it in her youth , suspect how poor she was and to what straits was sometimes reduced .
She much preferred to have them think her miserly and odd -- a queer old recluse who never went anywhere , even to church , and who paid the smallest subscription to the minister's salary of anyone in the congregation .
`` And her just rolling in wealth ! ''
they said indignantly .
`` Well , she didn't get her miserly ways from her parents .
THEY were real generous and neighbourly .
There never was a finer gentleman than old Doctor Lloyd .
He was always doing kindnesses to everybody ; and he had a way of doing them that made you feel as if you was doing the favour , not him .
Well , well , let Old Lady Lloyd keep herself and her money to herself if she wants to .
If she doesn't want our company , she doesn't have to suffer it , that's all .
Reckon she isn't none too happy for all her money and pride . ''
No , the Old Lady was none too happy , that was unfortunately true .
It is not easy to be happy when your life is eaten up with loneliness and emptiness on the spiritual side , and when , on the material side , all you have between you and starvation is the little money your hens bring you in .
The Old Lady lived `` away back at the old Lloyd place , '' as it was always called .
It was a quaint , low-eaved house , with big chimneys and square windows and with spruces growing thickly all around it .
The Old Lady lived there all alone and there were weeks at a time when she never saw a human being except Crooked Jack .
What the Old Lady did with herself and how she put in her time was a puzzle the Spencervale people could not solve .
The children believed she amused herself counting the gold in the big black box under her bed .
Spencervale children held the Old Lady in mortal terror ; some of them -- the `` Spencer Road '' fry -- believed she was a witch ; all of them would run if , when wandering about the woods in search of berries or spruce gum , they saw at a distance the spare , upright form of the Old Lady , gathering sticks for her fire .
Mary Moore was the only one who was quite sure she was not a witch .
`` Witches are always ugly , '' she said decisively , `` and Old Lady Lloyd isn't ugly .
She's real pretty -- she's got such a soft white hair and big black eyes and a little white face .
Those Road children don't know what they 're talking of .
Mother says they 're a very ignorant crowd . ''
`` Well , she doesn't ever go to church , and she mutters and talks to herself all the time she's picking up sticks , '' maintained Jimmy Kimball stoutly .
The Old Lady talked to herself because she was really very fond of company and conversation .
To be sure , when you have talked to nobody but yourself for nearly twenty years , it is apt to grow somewhat monotonous ; and there were times when the Old Lady would have sacrificed everything but her pride for a little human companionship .
At such times she felt very bitter and resentful toward Fate for having taken everything from her .
She had nothing to love , and that is about as unwholesome a condition as is possible to anyone .
It was always hardest in the spring .
Once upon a time the Old Lady -- when she had not been the Old Lady , but pretty , wilful , high-spirited Margaret Lloyd -- had loved springs ; now she hated them because they hurt her ; and this particular spring of this particular May chapter hurt her more than any that had gone before .
The Old Lady felt as if she could NOT endure the ache of it .
Everything hurt her -- the new green tips on the firs , the fairy mists down in the little beech hollow below the house , the fresh smell of the red earth Crooked Jack spaded up in her garden .
The Old Lady lay awake all one moonlit night and cried for very heartache .
She even forgot her body hunger in her soul hunger ; and the Old Lady had been hungry , more or less , all that week .
She was living on store biscuits and water , so that she might be able to pay Crooked Jack for digging her garden .
When the pale , lovely dawn-colour came stealing up the sky behind the spruces , the Old Lady buried her face in her pillow and refused to look at it .
`` I hate the new day , '' she said rebelliously .
`` It will be just like all the other hard , common days .
I don't want to get up and live it .
And , oh , to think that long ago I reached out my hands joyfully to every new day , as to a friend who was bringing me good tidings !
I loved the mornings then -- sunny or gray , they were as delightful as an unread book -- and now I hate them -- hate them -- hate them ! ''
But the Old Lady got up nevertheless , for she knew Crooked Jack would be coming early to finish the garden .
She arranged her beautiful , thick , white hair very carefully , and put on her purple silk dress with the little gold spots in it .
The Old Lady always wore silk from motives of economy .
It was much cheaper to wear a silk dress that had belonged to her mother than to buy new print at the store .
The Old Lady had plenty of silk dresses which had belonged to her mother .
She wore them morning , noon , and night , and Spencervale people considered it an additional evidence of her pride .
As for the fashion of them , it was , of course , just because she was too mean to have them made over .
They did not dream that the Old Lady never put on one of the silk dresses without agonizing over its unfashionableness , and that even the eyes of Crooked Jack cast on her antique flounces and overskirts was almost more than her feminine vanity could endure .
In spite of the fact that the Old Lady had not welcomed the new day , its beauty charmed her when she went out for a walk after her dinner -- or , rather , after her mid-day biscuit .
It was so fresh , so sweet , so virgin ; and the spruce woods around the old Lloyd place were athrill with busy spring doings and all sprinkled through with young lights and shadows .
Some of their delight found its way into the Old Lady's bitter heart as she wandered through them , and when she came out at the little plank bridge over the brook down under the beeches , she felt almost gentle and tender once more .
There was one big beech there , in particular , which the Old Lady loved for reasons best known to herself -- a great , tall beech with a trunk like the shaft of a gray marble column and a leafy spread of branches over the still , golden-brown pool made beneath it by the brook .
It had been a young sapling in the days that were haloed by the vanished glory of the Old Lady's life .
The Old Lady heard childish voices and laughter afar up the lane which led to William Spencer's place just above the woods .
William Spencer's front lane ran out to the main road in a different direction , but this `` back lane '' furnished a short cut and his children always went to school that way .
The Old Lady shrank hastily back behind a clump of young spruces .
She did not like the Spencer children because they always seemed so afraid of her .
Through the spruce screen she could see them coming gaily down the lane -- the two older ones in front , the twins behind , clinging to the hands of a tall , slim , young girl -- the new music teacher , probably .
The Old Lady had heard from the egg pedlar that she was going to board at William Spencer's , but she had not heard her name .
She looked at her with some curiosity as they drew near -- and then , all at once , the Old Lady's heart gave a great bound and began to beat as it had not beaten for years , while her breath came quickly and she trembled violently .
Who -- WHO could this girl be ?
Under the new music teacher's straw hat were masses of fine chestnut hair of the very shade and wave that the Old Lady remembered on another head in vanished years ; from under those waves looked large , violet-blue eyes with very black lashes and brows -- and the Old Lady knew those eyes as well as she knew her own ; and the new music teacher's face , with all its beauty of delicate outline and dainty colouring and glad , buoyant youth , was a face from the Old Lady's past -- a perfect resemblance in every respect save one ; the face which the Old Lady remembered had been weak , with all its charm ; but this girl's face possessed a fine , dominant strength compact of sweetness and womanliness .
As she passed by the Old Lady's hiding place she laughed at something one of the children said ; and oh , but the Old Lady knew that laughter well .
She had heard it before under that very beech tree .
She watched them until they disappeared over the wooded hill beyond the bridge ; and then she went back home as if she walked in a dream .
Crooked Jack was delving vigorously in the garden ; ordinarily the Old Lady did not talk much with Crooked Jack , for she disliked his weakness for gossip ; but now she went into the garden , a stately old figure in her purple , gold-spotted silk , with the sunshine gleaming on her white hair .
Crooked Jack had seen her go out and had remarked to himself that the Old Lady was losing ground ; she was pale and peaked-looking .
He now concluded that he had been mistaken .
The Old Lady's cheeks were pink and her eyes shining .
Somewhere in her walk she had shed ten years at least .
Crooked Jack leaned on his spade and decided that there weren't many finer looking women anywhere than Old Lady Lloyd .
Pity she was such an old miser !
`` Mr. Spencer , '' said the Old Lady graciously -- she always spoke very graciously to her inferiors when she talked to them at all -- `` can you tell me the name of the new music teacher who is boarding at Mr. William Spencer's ? ''
`` Sylvia Gray , '' said Crooked Jack .
The Old Lady's heart gave another great bound .
But she had known it -- she had known that girl with Leslie Gray's hair and eyes and laugh must be Leslie Gray's daughter .
Crooked Jack spat on his hand and resumed his work , but his tongue went faster than his spade , and the Old Lady listened greedily .
For the first time she enjoyed and blessed Crooked Jack's garrulity and gossip .
Every word he uttered was as an apple of gold in a picture of silver to her .
He had been working at William Spencer's the day the new music teacher had come , and what Crooked Jack couldn't find out about any person in one whole day -- at least as far as outward life went -- was hardly worth finding out .
Next to discovering things did he love telling them , and it would be hard to say which enjoyed that ensuing half-hour more -- Crooked Jack or the Old Lady .
Crooked Jack's account , boiled down , amounted to this ; both Miss Gray's parents had died when she was a baby , she had been brought up by an aunt , she was very poor and very ambitious .
`` Wants a moosical eddication , '' finished up Crooked Jack , `` and , by jingo , she orter have it , for anything like the voice of her I never heerd .
She sung for us that evening after supper and I thought 't was an angel singing .
It just went through me like a shaft o ' light .
The Spencer young ones are crazy over her already .
She's got twenty pupils around here and in Grafton and Avonlea . ''
When the Old Lady had found out everything Crooked Jack could tell her , she went into the house and sat down by the window of her little sitting-room to think it all over .
She was tingling from head to foot with excitement .
Leslie's daughter !
This Old Lady had had her romance once .
Long ago -- forty years ago -- she had been engaged to Leslie Gray , a young college student who taught in Spencervale for the summer term one year -- the golden summer of Margaret Lloyd's life .
Leslie had been a shy , dreamy , handsome fellow with literary ambitions , which , as he and Margaret both firmly believed , would one day bring him fame and fortune .
Then there had been a foolish , bitter quarrel at the end of that golden summer .
Leslie had gone away in anger , afterwards he had written , but Margaret Lloyd , still in the grasp of her pride and resentment , had sent a harsh answer .
No more letters came ; Leslie Gray never returned ; and one day Margaret wakened to the realization that she had put love out of her life for ever .
She knew it would never be hers again ; and from that moment her feet were turned from youth to walk down the valley of shadow to a lonely , eccentric age .
Many years later she heard of Leslie's marriage ; then came news of his death , after a life that had not fulfilled his dreams for him .
Nothing more she had heard or known -- nothing to this day , when she had seen his daughter pass her by unseeing in the beech hollow .
`` His daughter !
And she might have been MY daughter , '' murmured the Old Lady .
`` Oh , if I could only know her and love her -- and perhaps win her love in return !
But I can not .
I could not have Leslie Gray's daughter know how poor I am -- how low I have been brought .
I could not bear that .
And to think she is living so near me , the darling -- just up the lane and over the hill .
I can see her go by every day -- I can have that dear pleasure , at least .
But oh , if I could only do something for her -- give her some little pleasure !
It would be such a delight . ''
When the Old Lady happened to go into her spare room that evening , she saw from it a light shining through a gap in the trees on the hill .
She knew that it shone from the Spencers ' spare room .
So it was Sylvia's light .
The Old Lady stood in the darkness and watched it until it went out -- watched it with a great sweetness breathing in her heart , such as risen from old rose-leaves when they are stirred .
She fancied Sylvia moving about her room , brushing and braiding her long , glistening hair -- laying aside her little trinkets and girlish adornments -- making her simple preparations for sleep .
When the light went out the Old Lady pictured a slight white figure kneeling by the window in the soft starshine , and the Old Lady knelt down then and there and said her own prayers in fellowship .
She said the simple form of words she had always used ; but a new spirit seemed to inspire them ; and she finished with a new petition -- `` Let me think of something I can do for her , dear Father -- some little , little thing that I can do for her . ''
The Old Lady had slept in the same room all her life -- the one looking north into the spruces -- and loved it ; but the next day she moved into the spare room without a regret .
It was to be her room after this ; she must be where she could see Sylvia's light , she put the bed where she could lie in it and look at that earth star which had suddenly shone across the twilight shadows of her heart .
She felt very happy , she had not felt happy for many years ; but now a strange , new , dream-like interest , remote from the harsh realities of her existence , but none the less comforting and alluring , had entered into her life .
Besides , she had thought of something she could do for Sylvia -- `` a little , little thing '' that might give her pleasure .
Spencervale people were wont to say regretfully that there were no Mayflowers in Spencervale ; the Spencervale young fry , when they wanted Mayflowers , thought they had to go over to the barrens at Avonlea , six miles away , for them .
Old Lady Lloyd knew better .
In her many long , solitary rambles , she had discovered a little clearing far back in the woods -- a southward-sloping , sandy hill on a tract of woodland belonging to a man who lived in town -- which in spring was starred over with the pink and white of arbutus .
To this clearing the Old Lady betook herself that afternoon , walking through wood lanes and under dim spruce arches like a woman with a glad purpose .
All at once the spring was dear and beautiful to her once more ; for love had entered again into her heart , and her starved soul was feasting on its divine nourishment .
Old Lady Lloyd found a wealth of Mayflowers on the sandy hill .
She filled her basket with them , gloating over the loveliness which was to give pleasure to Sylvia .
When she got home she wrote on a slip of paper , `` For Sylvia . ''
It was not likely anyone in Spencervale would know her handwriting , but , to make sure , she disguised it , writing in round , big letters like a child's .
She carried her Mayflowers down to the hollow and heaped them in a recess between the big roots of the old beech , with the little note thrust through a stem on top .
Then the Old Lady deliberately hid behind the spruce clump .
She had put on her dark green silk on purpose for hiding .
She had not long to wait .
Soon Sylvia Gray came down the hill with Mattie Spencer .
When she reached the bridge she saw the Mayflowers and gave an exclamation of delight .
Then she saw her name and her expression changed to wonder .
The Old Lady , peering through the boughs , could have laughed for very pleasure over the success of her little plot .
`` For me ! ''
said Sylvia , lifting the flowers .
`` CAN they really be for me , Mattie ?
Who could have left them here ? ''
Mattie giggled .
`` I believe it was Chris Stewart , '' she said .
`` I know he was over at Avonlea last night .
And ma says he's taken a notion to you -- she knows by the way he looked at you when you were singing night before last .
It would be just like him to do something queer like this -- he's such a shy fellow with the girls . ''
Sylvia frowned a little .
She did not like Mattie's expressions , but she did like Mayflowers , and she did not dislike Chris Stewart , who had seemed to her merely a nice , modest , country boy .
She lifted the flowers and buried her face in them .
`` Anyway , I 'm much obliged to the giver , whoever he or she is , '' she said merrily .
`` There's nothing I love like Mayflowers .
Oh , how sweet they are ! ''
When they had passed the Old Lady emerged from her lurking place , flushed with triumph .
It did not vex her that Sylvia should think Chris Stewart had given her the flowers ; nay , it was all the better , since she would be the less likely to suspect the real donor .
The main thing was that Sylvia should have the delight of them .
That quite satisfied the Old Lady , who went back to her lonely house with the cockles of her heart all in a glow .
It soon was a matter of gossip in Spencervale that Chris Stewart was leaving Mayflowers at the beech hollow for the music teacher every other day .
Chris himself denied it , but he was not believed .
Firstly , there were no Mayflowers in Spencervale ; secondly , Chris had to go to Carmody every other day to haul milk to the butter factory , and Mayflowers grew in Carmody , and , thirdly , the Stewarts always had a romantic streak in them .
Was not that enough circumstantial evidence for anybody ?
As for Sylvia , she did not mind if Chris had a boyish admiration for her and expressed it thus delicately .
She thought it very nice of him , indeed , when he did not vex her with any other advances , and she was quite content to enjoy his Mayflowers .
Old Lady Lloyd heard all the gossip about it from the egg pedlar , and listened to him with laughter glimmering far down in her eyes .
The egg pedlar went away and vowed he 'd never seen the Old Lady so spry as she was this spring ; she seemed real interested in the young folk's doings .
The Old Lady kept her secret and grew young in it .
She walked back to the Mayflower hill as long as the Mayflowers lasted ; and she always hid in the spruces to see Sylvia Gray go by .
Every day she loved her more , and yearned after her more deeply .
All the long repressed tenderness of her nature overflowed to this girl who was unconscious of it .
She was proud of Sylvia's grace and beauty , and sweetness of voice and laughter .
She began to like the Spencer children because they worshipped Sylvia ; she envied Mrs. Spencer because the latter could minister to Sylvia's needs .
Even the egg pedlar seemed a delightful person because he brought news of Sylvia -- her social popularity , her professional success , the love and admiration she had won already .
The Old Lady never dreamed of revealing herself to Sylvia .
That , in her poverty , was not to be thought of for a moment .
It would have been very sweet to know her -- sweet to have her come to the old house -- sweet to talk to her -- to enter into her life .
But it might not be .
The Old Lady's pride was still far stronger than her love .
It was the one thing she had never sacrificed and never -- so she believed -- could sacrifice .
There were no Mayflowers in June ; but now the Old Lady's garden was full of blossoms and every morning Sylvia found a bouquet of them by the beech -- the perfumed ivory of white narcissus , the flame of tulips , the fairy branches of bleeding-heart , the pink-and-snow of little , thorny , single , sweetbreathed early roses .
The Old Lady had no fear of discovery , for the flowers that grew in her garden grew in every other Spencervale garden as well , including the Stewart garden .
Chris Stewart , when he was teased about the music teacher , merely smiled and held his peace .
Chris knew perfectly well who was the real giver of those flowers .
He had made it his business to find out when the Mayflower gossip started .
But since it was evident Old Lady Lloyd did not wish it to be known , Chris told no one .
Chris had always liked Old Lady Lloyd ever since the day , ten years before , when she had found him crying in the woods with a cut foot and had taken him into her house , and bathed and bound the wound , and given him ten cents to buy candy at the store .
The Old Lady went without supper that night because of it , but Chris never knew that .
The Old Lady thought it a most beautiful June .
She no longer hated the new days ; on the contrary , she welcomed them .
`` Every day is an uncommon day now , '' she said jubilantly to herself -- for did not almost every day bring her a glimpse of Sylvia ?
Even on rainy days the Old Lady gallantly braved rheumatism to hide behind her clump of dripping spruces and watch Sylvia pass .
The only days she could not see her were Sundays ; and no Sundays had ever seemed so long to Old Lady Lloyd as those June Sundays did .
One day the egg pedlar had news for her .
`` The music teacher is going to sing a solo for a collection piece to-morrow , '' he told her .
The Old Lady's black eyes flashed with interest .
`` I didn't know Miss Gray was a member of the choir , '' she said .
`` Jined two Sundays ago .
I tell you , our music is something worth listening to now .
The church'll be packed to-morrow , I reckon -- her name's gone all over the country for singing .
You ought to come and hear it , Miss Lloyd . ''
The pedlar said this out of bravado , merely to show he wasn't scared of the Old Lady , for all her grand airs .
The Old Lady made no answer , and he thought he had offended her .
He went away , wishing he hadn't said it .
Had he but known it , the Old Lady had forgotten the existence of all and any egg pedlars .
He had blotted himself and his insignificance out of her consciousness by his last sentence .
All her thoughts , feelings , and wishes were submerged in a very whirlpool of desire to hear Sylvia sing that solo .
She went into the house in a tumult and tried to conquer that desire .
She could not do it , even thought she summoned all her pride to her aid .
Pride said : `` You will have to go to church to hear her .
You haven't fit clothes to go to church in .
Think what a figure you will make before them all . ''
But , for the first time , a more insistent voice than pride spoke to her soul -- and , for the first time , the Old Lady listened to it .
It was too true that she had never gone to church since the day on which she had to begin wearing her mother's silk dresses .
The Old Lady herself thought that this was very wicked ; and she tried to atone by keeping Sunday very strictly , and always having a little service of her own , morning and evening .
She sang three hymns in her cracked voice , prayed aloud , and read a sermon .
But she could not bring herself to go to church in her out-of-date clothes -- she , who had once set the fashions in Spencervale , and the longer she stayed away , the more impossible it seemed that she should ever again go .
Now the impossible had become , not only possible , but insistent .
She must go to church and hear Sylvia sing , no matter how ridiculous she appeared , no matter how people talked and laughed at her .
Spencervale congregation had a mild sensation the next afternoon .
Just before the opening of service Old Lady Lloyd walked up the aisle and sat down in the long-unoccupied Lloyd pew , in front of the pulpit .
The Old Lady's very soul was writhing within her .
She recalled the reflection she had seen in her mirror before she left -- the old black silk in the mode of thirty years agone and the queer little bonnet of shirred black satin .
She thought how absurd she must look in the eyes of her world .
As a matter of fact , she did not look in the least absurd .
Some women might have ; but the Old Lady's stately distinction of carriage and figure was so subtly commanding that it did away with the consideration of garmenting altogether .
The Old Lady did not know this .
But she did know that Mrs. Kimball , the storekeeper's wife , presently rustled into the next pew in the very latest fashion of fabric and mode ; she and Mrs. Kimball were the same age , and there had been a time when the latter had been content to imitate Margaret Lloyd's costumes at a humble distance .
But the storekeeper had proposed , and things were changed now ; and there sat poor Old Lady Lloyd , feeling the change bitterly , and half wishing she had not come to church at all .
Then all at once the Angel of Love touched there foolish thoughts , born of vanity and morbid pride , and they melted away as if they had never been .
Sylvia Gray had come into the choir , and was sitting just where the afternoon sunshine fell over her beautiful hair like a halo .
The Old Lady looked at her in a rapture of satisfied longing and thenceforth the service was blessed to her , as anything is blessed which comes through the medium of unselfish love , whether human or divine .
Nay , are they not one and the same , differing in degree only , not in kind ?
The Old Lady had never had such a good , satisfying look at Sylvia before .
All her former glimpses had been stolen and fleeting .
Now she sat and gazed upon her to her hungry heart's content , lingering delightedly over every little charm and loveliness -- the way Sylvia's shining hair rippled back from her forehead , the sweet little trick she had of dropping quickly her long-lashed eyelids when she encountered too bold or curious a glance , and the slender , beautifully modelled hands -- so like Leslie Gray's hands -- that held her hymn book .
She was dressed very plainly in a black skirt and a white shirtwaist ; but none of the other girls in the choir , with all their fine feathers , could hold a candle to her -- as the egg pedlar said to his wife , going home from church .
The Old Lady listened to the opening hymns with keen pleasure .
Sylvia's voice thrilled through and dominated them all .
But when the ushers got up to take the collection , an undercurrent of subdued excitement flowed over the congregation .
Sylvia rose and came forward to Janet Moore's side at the organ .
The next moment her beautiful voice soared through the building like the very soul of melody -- true , clear , powerful , sweet .
Nobody in Spencervale had ever listened to such a voice , except Old Lady Lloyd herself , who , in her youth , had heard enough good singing to enable her to be a tolerable judge of it .
She realized instantly that this girl of her heart had a great gift -- a gift that would some day bring her fame and fortune , if it could be duly trained and developed .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad I came to church , '' thought Old Lady Lloyd .
When the solo was ended , the Old Lady's conscience compelled her to drag her eyes and thoughts from Sylvia , and fasten them on the minister , who had been flattering himself all through the opening portion of the service that Old Lady Lloyd had come to church on his account .
He was newly settled , having been in charge of the Spencervale congregation only a few months ; he was a clever little fellow and he honestly thought it was the fame of his preaching that had brought Old Lady Lloyd out to church .
When the service was over all the Old Lady's neighbours came to speak to her , with kindly smile and handshake .
They thought they ought to encourage her , now that she had made a start in the right direction ; the Old Lady liked their cordiality , and liked it none the less because she detected in it the same unconscious respect and deference she had been wont to receive in the old days -- a respect and deference which her personality compelled from all who approached her .
The Old Lady was surprised to find that she could command it still , in defiance of unfashionable bonnet and ancient attire .
Janet Moore and Sylvia Gray walked home from church together .
`` Did you see Old Lady Lloyd out to-day ? ''
asked Janet .
`` I was amazed when she walked in .
She has never been to church in my recollection .
What a quaint old figure she is !
She's very rich , you know , but she wears her mother's old clothes and never gets a new thing .
Some people think she is mean ; but , '' concluded Janet charitably , `` I believe it is simply eccentricity . ''
`` I felt that was Miss Lloyd as soon as I saw her , although I had never seen her before , '' said Sylvia dreamily .
`` I have been wishing to see her -- for a certain reason .
She has a very striking face .
I should like to meet her -- to know her . ''
`` I don't think it's likely you ever will , '' said Janet carelessly .
`` She doesn't like young people and she never goes anywhere .
I don't think I 'd like to know her .
I 'd be afraid of her -- she has such stately ways and such strange , piercing eyes . '' ''
I shouldn't be afraid of her , '' said Sylvia to herself , as she turned into the Spencer lane .
`` But I don't expect I'll ever become acquainted with her .
If she knew who I am I suppose she would dislike me .
I suppose she never suspects that I am Leslie Gray's daughter . ''
The minister , thinking it well to strike while the iron was hot , went up to call on Old Lady Lloyd the very next afternoon .
He went in fear and trembling , for he had heard things about Old Lady Lloyd ; but she made herself so agreeable in her high-bred fashion that he was delighted , and told his wife when he went home that Spencervale people didn't understand Miss Lloyd .
This was perfectly true ; but it is by no means certain that the minister understood her either .
He made only one mistake in tact , but , as the Old Lady did not snub him for it , he never knew he made it .
When he was leaving he said , `` I hope we shall see you at church next Sunday , Miss Lloyd . ''
`` Indeed , you will , '' said the Old Lady emphatically .
The first day of July Sylvia found a little birch bark boat full of strawberries at the beech in the hollow .
They were the earliest of the season ; the Old Lady had found them in one of her secret haunts .
They would have been a toothsome addition to the Old Lady's own slender bill of fare ; but she never thought of eating them .
She got far more pleasure out of the thought of Sylvia's enjoying them for her tea .
Thereafter the strawberries alternated with the flowers as long as they lasted , and then came blueberries and raspberries .
The blueberries grew far away and the Old Lady had many a tramp after them .
Sometimes her bones ached at night because of it ; but what cared the Old Lady for that ?
Bone ache is easier to endure than soul ache ; and the Old Lady's soul had stopped aching for the first time in many year .
It was being nourished with heavenly manna .
One evening Crooked Jack came up to fix something that had gone wrong with the Old Lady's well .
The Old Lady wandered affably out to him ; for she knew he had been working at the Spencers ' all day , and there might be crumbs of information about Sylvia to be picked up .
`` I reckon the music teacher's feeling pretty blue this evening , '' Crooked Jack remarked , after straining the Old Lady's patience to the last verge of human endurance by expatiating on William Spencer's new pump , and Mrs. Spencer's new washing-machine , and Amelia Spencer's new young man .
`` Why ? ''
asked the Old Lady , turning very pale .
Had anything happened to Sylvia ?
`` Well , she's been invited to a big party at Mrs. Moore's brother's in town , and she hasn't got a dress to go in , '' said Crooked Jack .
`` They 're great swells and everybody will be got up regardless .
Mrs. Spencer was telling me about it .
She says Miss Gray can't afford a new dress because she's helping to pay her aunt's doctor's bills .
She says she's sure Miss Gray feels awful disappointed over it , though she doesn't let on .
But Mrs. Spencer says she knows she was crying after she went to bed last night . ''
The Old Lady turned and went into the house abruptly .
This was dreadful .
Sylvia must go to that party -- she MUST .
But how was it to be managed ?
Through the Old Lady's brain passed wild thoughts of her mother's silk dresses .
But none of them would be suitable , even if there were time to make one over .
Never had the Old Lady so bitterly regretted her vanished wealth .
`` I've only two dollars in the house , '' she said , `` and I've got to live on that till the next day the egg pedlar comes round .
Is there anything I can sell -- ANYTHING ?
Yes , yes , the grape jug ! ''
Up to this time , the Old Lady would as soon have thought of trying to sell her head as the grape jug .
The grape jug was two hundred years old and had been in the Lloyd family ever since it was a jug at all .
It was a big , pot-bellied affair , festooned with pink-gilt grapes , and with a verse of poetry printed on one side , and it had been given as a wedding present to the Old Lady's great-grandmother .
As long as the Old Lady could remember it had sat on the top shelf in the cupboard in the sitting-room wall , far too precious ever to be used .
Two years before , a woman who collected old china had explored Spencervale , and , getting word of the grape jug , had boldly invaded the old Lloyd place and offered to buy it .
She never , to her dying day , forgot the reception the Old Lady gave her ; but , being wise in her day and generation , she left her card , saying that if Miss Lloyd ever changed her mind about selling the jug , she would find that she , the aforesaid collector , had not changed hers about buying it .
People who make a hobby of heirloom china must meekly overlook snubs , and this particular person had never seen anything she coveted so much as that grape jug .
The Old Lady had torn the card to pieces ; but she remembered the name and address .
She went to the cupboard and took down the beloved jug .
`` I never thought to part with it , '' she said wistfully , `` but Sylvia must have a dress , and there is no other way .
And , after all , when I 'm gone , who would there be to have it ?
Strangers would get it then -- it might as well go to them now .
I'll have to go to town to-morrow morning , for there's no time to lose if the party is Friday night .
I haven't been to town for ten years .
I dread the thought of going , more than parting with the jug .
But for Sylvia's sake ! ''
It was all over Spencervale by the next morning that Old Lady Lloyd had gone to town , carrying a carefully guarded box .
Everybody wondered why she went ; most people supposed she had become too frightened to keep her money in a black box below her bed , when there had been two burglaries over at Carmody , and had taken it to the bank .
The Old Lady sought out the address of the china collector , trembling with fear that she might be dead or gone .
But the collector was there , very much alive , and as keenly anxious to possess the grape jug as ever .
The Old Lady , pallid with the pain of her trampled pride , sold the grape jug and went away , believing that her great-grandmother must have turned over in her grave at the moment of the transaction .
Old Lady Lloyd felt like a traitor to her traditions .
But she went unflinchingly to a big store and , guided by that special Providence which looks after simple-minded old souls in their dangerous excursions into the world , found a sympathetic clerk who knew just what she wanted and got it for her .
The Old Lady selected a very dainty muslin gown , with gloves and slippers in keeping ; and she ordered it sent at once , expressage prepaid , to Miss Sylvia Gray , in care of William Spencer , Spencervale .
Then she paid down the money -- the whole price of the jug , minus a dollar and a half for railroad fare -- with a grand , careless air and departed .
As she marched erectly down the aisle of the store , she encountered a sleek , portly , prosperous man coming in .
As their eyes met , the man started and his bland face flushed crimson ; he lifted his hat and bowed confusedly .
But the Old Lady looked through him as if he wasn't there , and passed on with not a sign of recognition about her .
He took one step after her , then stopped and turned away , with a rather disagreeable smile and a shrug of his shoulders .
Nobody would have guessed , as the Old Lady swept out , how her heart was seething with abhorrence and scorn .
She would not have had the courage to come to town , even for Sylvia's sake , if she had thought she would meet Andrew Cameron .
The mere sight of him opened up anew a sealed fountain of bitterness in her soul ; but the thought of Sylvia somehow stemmed the torrent , and presently the Old Lady was smiling rather triumphantly , thinking rightly that she had come off best in that unwelcome encounter .
SHE , at any rate , had not faltered and coloured , and lost her presence of mind .
`` It is little wonder HE did , '' thought the Old Lady vindictively .
It pleased her that Andrew Cameron should lose , before her , the front of adamant he presented to the world .
He was her cousin and the only living creature Old Lady Lloyd hated , and she hated and despised him with all the intensity of her intense nature .
She and hers had sustained grievous wrong at his hands , and the Old Lady was convinced that she would rather die than take any notice of his existence .
Presently , she resolutely put Andrew Cameron out of her mind .
It was desecration to think of him and Sylvia together .
When she laid her weary head on her pillow that night she was so happy that even the thought of the vacant shelf in the room below , where the grape jug had always been , gave her only a momentary pang .
`` It's sweet to sacrifice for one we love -- it's sweet to have someone to sacrifice for , '' thought the Old Lady .
Desire grows by what it feeds on .
The Old Lady thought she was content ; but Friday evening came and found her in a perfect fever to see Sylvia in her party dress .
It was not enough to fancy her in it ; nothing would do the Old Lady but seeing her .
`` And I SHALL see her , '' said the Old Lady resolutely , looking out from her window at Sylvia's light gleaming through the firs .
She wrapped herself in a dark shawl and crept out , slipping down to the hollow and up the wood lane .
It was a misty , moonlight night , and a wind , fragrant with the aroma of clover fields , blew down the lane to meet her .
`` I wish I could take your perfume -- the soul of you -- and pour it into her life , '' said the Old Lady aloud to that wind .
Sylvia Gray was standing in her room , ready for the party .
Before her stood Mrs. Spencer and Amelia Spencer and all the little Spencer girls , in an admiring semi-circle .
There was another spectator .
Outside , under the lilac bush , Old Lady Lloyd was standing .
She could see Sylvia plainly , in her dainty dress , with the pale pink roses Old Lady Lloyd had left at the beech that day for her in her hair .
Pink as they were , they were not so pink as her cheeks , and her eyes shone like stars .
Amelia Spencer put up her hand to push back a rose that had fallen a little out of place , and the Old Lady envied her fiercely .
`` That dress couldn't have fitted better if it had been made for you , '' said Mrs. Spencer admiringly .
`` Ain't she lovely , Amelia ?
Who COULD have sent it ? ''
`` Oh , I feel sure that Mrs. Moore was the fairy godmother , '' said Sylvia .
`` There is nobody else who would .
It was dear of her -- she knew I wished so much to go to the party with Janet .
I wish Aunty could see me now . ''
Sylvia gave a little sigh in spite of her joy .
`` There's nobody else to care very much . ''
Ah , Sylvia , you were wrong !
There was somebody else -- somebody who cared very much -- an Old Lady , with eager , devouring eyes , who was standing under the lilac bush and who presently stole away through the moonlit orchard to the woods like a shadow , going home with a vision of you in your girlish beauty to companion her through the watches of that summer night .
One day the minister's wife rushed in where Spencervale people had feared to tread , went boldly to Old Lady Lloyd , and asked her if she wouldn't come to their Sewing Circle , which met fortnightly on Saturday afternoons .
`` We are filling a box to send to our Trinidad missionary , '' said the minister's wife , `` and we should be so pleased to have you come , Miss Lloyd . ''
The Old Lady was on the point of refusing rather haughtily .
Not that she was opposed to missions -- or sewing circles either -- quite the contrary , but she knew that each member of the Circle was expected to pay ten cents a week for the purpose of procuring sewing materials ; and the poor Old Lady really did not see how she could afford it .
But a sudden thought checked her refusal before it reached her lips .
`` I suppose some of the young girls go to the Circle ? ''
she said craftily .
`` Oh , they all go , '' said the minister's wife .
`` Janet Moore and Miss Gray are our most enthusiastic members .
It is very lovely of Miss Gray to give her Saturday afternoons -- the only ones she has free from pupils -- to our work .
But she really has the sweetest disposition . ''
`` I'll join your Circle , '' said the Old Lady promptly .
She was determined she would do it , if she had to live on two meals a day to save the necessary fee .
She went to the Sewing Circle at James Martin's the next Saturday , and did the most beautiful hand sewing for them .
She was so expert at it that she didn't need to think about it at all , which was rather fortunate , for all her thoughts were taken up with Sylvia , who sat in the opposite corner with Janet Moore , her graceful hands busy with a little boy's coarse gingham shirt .
Nobody thought of introducing Sylvia to Old Lady Lloyd , and the Old Lady was glad of it .
She sewed finely away , and listened with all her ears to the girlish chatter which went on in the opposite corner .
One thing she found out -- Sylvia's birthday was the twentieth of August .
And the Old Lady was straightway fired with a consuming wish to give Sylvia a birthday present .
She lay awake most of the night wondering if she could do it , and most sorrowfully concluded that it was utterly out of the question , no matter how she might pinch and contrive .
Old Lady Lloyd worried quite absurdly over this , and it haunted her like a spectre until the next Sewing Circle day .
It met at Mrs. Moore's and Mrs. Moore was especially gracious to Old Lady Lloyd , and insisted on her taking the wicker rocker in the parlour .
The Old Lady would rather have been in the sitting-room with the young girls , but she submitted for courtesy's sake -- and she had her reward .
Her chair was just behind the parlour door , and presently Janet Moore and Sylvia Gray came and sat on the stairs in the hall outside , where a cool breeze blew in through the maples before the front door .
They were talking of their favourite poets .
Janet , it appeared , adored Byron and Scott .
Sylvia leaned to Tennyson and Browning .
`` Do you know , '' said Sylvia softly , `` my father was a poet ?
He published a little volume of verse once ; and , Janet , I've never seen a copy of it , and oh , how I would love to !
It was published when he was at college -- just a small , private edition to give his friends .
He never published any more -- poor father !
I think life disappointed him .
But I have such a longing to see that little book of his verse .
I haven't a scrap of his writings .
If I had it would seem as if I possessed something of him -- of his heart , his soul , his inner life .
He would be something more than a mere name to me . ''
`` Didn't he have a copy of his own -- didn't your mother have one ? ''
asked Janet .
`` Mother hadn't .
She died when I was born , you know , but Aunty says there was no copy of father's poems among mother's books .
Mother didn't care for poetry , Aunty says -- Aunty doesn't either .
Father went to Europe after mother died , and he died there the next year .
Nothing that he had with him was ever sent home to us .
He had sold most of his books before he went , but he gave a few of his favourite ones to Aunty to keep for me .
HIS book wasn't among them .
I don't suppose I shall ever find a copy , but I should be so delighted if I only could . ''
When the Old Lady got home she took from her top bureau drawer an inlaid box of sandalwood .
It held a little , slim , limp volume , wrapped in tissue paper -- the Old Lady's most treasured possession .
On the fly-leaf was written , `` To Margaret , with the author's love . ''
The Old Lady turned the yellow leaves with trembling fingers and , through eyes brimming with tears , read the verses , although she had known them all by heart for years .
She meant to give the book to Sylvia for a birthday present -- one of the most precious gifts ever given , if the value of gifts is gauged by the measure of self-sacrifice involved .
In that little book was immortal love -- old laughter -- old tears -- old beauty which had bloomed like a rose years ago , holding still its sweetness like old rose leaves .
She removed the telltale fly-leaf ; and late on the night before Sylvia's birthday , the Old Lady crept , under cover of the darkness , through byways and across fields , as if bent on some nefarious expedition , to the little Spencervale store where the post-office was kept .
She slipped the thin parcel through the slit in the door , and then stole home again , feeling a strange sense of loss and loneliness .
It was as if she had given away the last link between herself and her youth .
But she did not regret it .
It would give Sylvia pleasure , and that had come to be the overmastering passion of the Old Lady's heart .
The next night the light in Sylvia's room burned very late , and the Old Lady watched it triumphantly , knowing the meaning of it .
Sylvia was reading her father's poems , and the Old Lady in her darkness read them too , murmuring the lines over and over to herself .
After all , giving away the book had not mattered so very much .
She had the soul of it still -- and the fly-leaf with the name , in Leslie's writing , by which nobody ever called her now .
The Old Lady was sitting on the Marshall sofa the next Sewing Circle afternoon when Sylvia Gray came and sat down beside her .
The Old Lady's hands trembled a little , and one side of a handkerchief , which was afterwards given as a Christmas present to a little olive-skinned coolie in Trinidad , was not quite so exquisitely done as the other three sides .
Sylvia at first talked of the Circle , and Mrs. Marshall's dahlias , and the Old Lady was in the seventh heaven of delight , though she took care not to show it , and was even a little more stately and finely mannered than usual .
When she asked Sylvia how she liked living in Spencervale , Sylvia said , `` Very much .
Everybody is so kind to me .
Besides '' -- Sylvia lowered her voice so that nobody but the Old Lady could hear it -- `` I have a fairy godmother here who does the most beautiful and wonderful things for me . ''
Sylvia , being a girl of fine instincts , did not look at Old Lady Lloyd as she said this .
But she would not have seen anything if she had looked .
The Old Lady was not a Lloyd for nothing .
`` How very interesting , '' she said , indifferently .
`` Isn't it ?
I am so grateful to her and I have wished so much she might know how much pleasure she has given me .
I have found lovely flowers and delicious berries on my path all summer ; I feel sure she sent me my party dress .
But the dearest gift came last week on my birthday -- a little volume of my father's poems .
I can't express what I felt on receiving them .
But I longed to meet my fairy godmother and thank her . ''
`` Quite a fascinating mystery , isn't it ?
Have you really no idea who she is ? ''
The Old Lady asked this dangerous question with marked success .
She would not have been so successful if she had not been so sure that Sylvia had no idea of the old romance between her and Leslie Gray .
As it was , she had a comfortable conviction that she herself was the very last person Sylvia would be likely to suspect .
Sylvia hesitated for an almost unnoticeable moment .
Then she said , `` I haven't tried to find out , because I don't think she wants me to know .
At first , of course , in the matter of the flowers and dress , I did try to solve the mystery ; but , since I received the book , I became convinced that it was my fairy godmother who was doing it all , and I have respected her wish for concealment and always shall .
Perhaps some day she will reveal herself to me .
I hope so , at least . ''
`` I wouldn't hope it , '' said the Old Lady discouragingly .
`` Fairy godmothers -- at least , in all the fairy tales I ever read -- are somewhat apt to be queer , crochety people , much more agreeable when wrapped up in mystery than when met face to face . ''
`` I 'm convinced that mine is the very opposite , and that the better I became acquainted with her , the more charming a personage I should find her , '' said Sylvia gaily .
Mrs. Marshall came up at this juncture and entreated Miss Gray to sing for them .
Miss Gray consenting sweetly , the Old Lady was left alone and was rather glad of it .
She enjoyed her conversation with Sylvia much more in thinking it over after she got home than while it was taking place .
When an Old Lady has a guilty conscience , it is apt to make her nervous and distract her thoughts from immediate pleasure .
She wondered a little uneasily if Sylvia really did suspect her .
Then she concluded that it was out of the question .
Who would suspect a mean , unsociable Old Lady , who had no friends , and who gave only five cents to the Sewing Circle when everyone else gave ten or fifteen , to be a fairy godmother , the donor of beautiful party dresses , and the recipient of gifts from romantic , aspiring young poets ?
In September the Old Lady looked back on the summer and owned to herself that it had been a strangely happy one , with Sundays and Sewing Circle days standing out like golden punctuation marks in a poem of life .
She felt like an utterly different woman ; and other people thought her different also .
The Sewing Circle women found her so pleasant , and even friendly , that they began to think they had misjudged her , and that perhaps it was eccentricity after all , and not meanness , which accounted for her peculiar mode of living .
Sylvia Gray always came and talked to her on Circle afternoons now , and the Old Lady treasured every word she said in her heart and repeated them over and over to her lonely self in the watches of the night .
Sylvia never talked of herself or her plans , unless asked about them ; and the Old Lady's self-consciousness prevented her from asking any personal questions : so their conversation kept to the surface of things , and it was not from Sylvia , but from the minister's wife that the Old Lady finally discovered what her darling's dearest ambition was .
The minister's wife had dropped in at the old Lloyd place one evening late in September , when a chilly wind was blowing up from the northeast and moaning about the eaves of the house , as if the burden of its lay were `` harvest is ended and summer is gone . ''
The Old Lady had been listening to it , as she plaited a little basket of sweet grass for Sylvia .
She had walked all the way to Avonlea sand-hills for it the day before , and she was very tired .
And her heart was sad .
This summer , which had so enriched her life , was almost over ; and she knew that Sylvia Gray talked of leaving Spencervale at the end of October .
The Old Lady's heart felt like very lead within her at the thought , and she almost welcomed the advent of the minister's wife as a distraction , although she was desperately afraid that the minister's wife had called to ask for a subscription for the new vestry carpet , and the Old Lady simply could not afford to give one cent .
But the minister's wife had merely dropped in on her way home from the Spencers ' and she did not make any embarrassing requests .
Instead , she talked about Sylvia Gray , and her words fell on the Old Lady's ears like separate pearl notes of unutterably sweet music .
The minister's wife had nothing but praise for Sylvia -- she was so sweet and beautiful and winning .
`` And with SUCH a voice , '' said the minister's wife enthusiastically , adding with a sigh , `` It's such a shame she can't have it properly trained .
She would certainly become a great singer -- competent critics have told her so .
But she is so poor she doesn't think she can ever possibly manage it -- unless she can get one of the Cameron scholarships , as they are called ; and she has very little hope of that , although the professor of music who taught her has sent her name in . ''
`` What are the Cameron scholarships ? ''
asked the Old Lady .
`` Well , I suppose you have heard of Andrew Cameron , the millionaire ? ''
said the minister's wife , serenely unconscious that she was causing the very bones of the Old Lady's family skeleton to jangle in their closet .
Into the Old Lady's white face came a sudden faint stain of colour , as if a rough hand had struck her cheek .
`` Yes , I've heard of him , '' she said .
`` Well , it seems that he had a daughter , who was a very beautiful girl , and whom he idolized .
She had a fine voice , and he was going to send her abroad to have it trained .
And she died .
It nearly broke his heart , I understand .
But ever since , he sends one young girl away to Europe every year for a thorough musical education under the best teachers -- in memory of his daughter .
He has sent nine or ten already ; but I fear there isn't much chance for Sylvia Gray , and she doesn't think there is herself . ''
`` Why not ? ''
asked the Old Lady spiritedly .
`` I am sure that there can be few voices equal to Miss Gray's . ''
`` Very true .
But you see , these so-called scholarships are private affairs , dependent solely on the whim and choice of Andrew Cameron himself .
Of course , when a girl has friends who use their influence with him , he will often send her on their recommendation .
They say he sent a girl last year who hadn't much of a voice at all just because her father had been an old business crony of his .
But Sylvia doesn't know anyone at all who would , to use a slang term , have any ` pull ' with Andrew Cameron , and she is not acquainted with him herself .
Well , I must be going ; we'll see you at the Manse on Saturday , I hope , Miss Lloyd .
The Circle meets there , you know . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' said the Old Lady absently .
When the minister's wife had gone , she dropped her sweetgrass basket and sat for a long , long time with her hands lying idly in her lap , and her big black eyes staring unseeingly at the wall before her .
Old Lady Lloyd , so pitifully poor that she had to eat six crackers the less a week to pay her fee to the Sewing Circle , knew that it was in her power -- HERS -- to send Leslie Gray's daughter to Europe for her musical education !
If she chose to use her `` pull '' with Andrew Cameron -- if she went to him and asked him to send Sylvia Gray abroad the next year -- she had no doubt whatever that it would be done .
It all lay with her -- if -- if -- IF she could so far crush and conquer her pride as to stoop to ask a favour of the man who had wronged her and hers so bitterly .
Years ago , her father , acting under the advice and urgency of Andrew Cameron , had invested all his little fortune in an enterprise that had turned out a failure .
Abraham Lloyd lost every dollar he possessed , and his family were reduced to utter poverty .
Andrew Cameron might have been forgiven for a mistake ; but there was a strong suspicion , amounting to almost certainty , that he had been guilty of something far worse than a mistake in regard to his uncle's investment .
Nothing could be legally proved ; but it was certain that Andrew Cameron , already noted for his `` sharp practices , '' emerged with improved finances from an entanglement that had ruined many better men ; and old Doctor Lloyd had died brokenhearted , believing that his nephew had deliberately victimized him .
Andrew Cameron had not quite done this ; he had meant well enough by his uncle at first , and what he had finally done he tried to justify to himself by the doctrine that a man must look out for Number One .
Margaret Lloyd made no such excuses for him ; she held him responsible , not only for her lost fortune , but for her father's death , and never forgave him for it .
When Abraham Lloyd had died , Andrew Cameron , perhaps pricked by his conscience , had come to her , sleekly and smoothly , to offer her financial aid .
He would see , he told her , that she never suffered want .
Margaret Lloyd flung his offer back in his face after a fashion that left nothing to be desired in the way of plain speaking .
She would die , she told him passionately , before she would accept a penny or a favour from him .
He had preserved an unbroken show of good temper , expressed his heartfelt regret that she should cherish such an unjust opinion of him , and had left her with an oily assurance that he would always be her friend , and would always be delighted to render her any assistance in his power whenever she should choose to ask for it .
The Old Lady had lived for twenty years in the firm conviction that she would die in the poorhouse -- as , indeed , seemed not unlikely -- before she would ask a favour of Andrew Cameron .
And so , in truth , she would have , had it been for herself .
But for Sylvia !
Could she so far humble herself for Sylvia's sake ?
The question was not easily or speedily settled , as had been the case in the matters of the grape jug and the book of poems .
For a whole week the Old Lady fought her pride and bitterness .
Sometimes , in the hours of sleepless night , when all human resentments and rancours seemed petty and contemptible , she thought she had conquered it .
But in the daytime , with the picture of her father looking down at her from the wall , and the rustle of her unfashionable dresses , worn because of Andrew Cameron's double dealing , in her ears , it got the better of her again .
But the Old Lady's love for Sylvia had grown so strong and deep and tender that no other feeling could endure finally against it .
Love is a great miracle worker ; and never had its power been more strongly made manifest than on the cold , dull autumn morning when the Old Lady walked to Bright River railway station and took the train to Charlottetown , bent on an errand the very thought of which turned her soul sick within her .
The station master who sold her her ticket thought Old Lady Lloyd looked uncommonly white and peaked -- `` as if she hadn't slept a wink or eaten a bite for a week , '' he told his wife at dinner time .
`` Guess there's something wrong in her business affairs .
This is the second time she's gone to town this summer . ''
When the Old Lady reached the town , she ate her slender little lunch and then walked out to the suburb where the Cameron factories and warehouses were .
It was a long walk for her , but she could not afford to drive .
She felt very tired when she was shown into the shining , luxurious office where Andrew Cameron sat at his desk .
After the first startled glance of surprise , he came forward beamingly , with outstretched hand .
`` Why , Cousin Margaret !
This is a pleasant surprise .
Sit down -- allow me , this is a much more comfortable chair .
Did you come in this morning ?
And how is everybody out in Spencervale ? ''
The Old Lady had flushed at his first words .
To hear the name by which her father and mother and lover had called her on Andrew Cameron's lips seemed like profanation .
But , she told herself , the time was past for squeamishness .
If she could ask a favour of Andrew Cameron , she could bear lesser pangs .
For Sylvia's sake she shook hands with him , for Sylvia's sake she sat down in the chair he offered .
But for no living human being's sake could this determined Old Lady infuse any cordiality into her manner or her words .
She went straight to the point with Lloyd simplicity .
`` I have come to ask a favour of you , '' she said , looking him in the eye , not at all humbly or meekly , as became a suppliant , but challengingly and defiantly , as if she dared him to refuse .
`` DE-lighted to hear it , Cousin Margaret . ''
Never was anything so bland and gracious as his tone .
`` Anything I can do for you I shall be only too pleased to do .
I am afraid you have looked upon me as an enemy , Margaret , and I assure you I have felt your injustice keenly .
I realize that some appearances were against me , but -- '' The Old Lady lifted her hand and stemmed his eloquence by that one gesture .
`` I did not come here to discuss that matter , '' she said .
`` We will not refer to the past , if you please .
I came to ask a favour , not for myself , but for a very dear young friend of mine -- a Miss Gray , who has a remarkably fine voice which she wishes to have trained .
She is poor , so I came to ask you if you would give her one of your musical scholarships .
I understand her name has already been suggested to you , with a recommendation from her teacher .
I do not know what he has said of her voice , but I do know he could hardly overrate it .
If you send her abroad for training , you will not make any mistake . ''
The Old Lady stopped talking .
She felt sure Andrew Cameron would grant her request , but she did hope he would grant it rather rudely or unwillingly .
She could accept the favour so much more easily if it were flung to her like a bone to a dog .
But not a bit of it .
Andrew Cameron was suaver than ever .
Nothing could give him greater pleasure than to grant his dear Cousin Margaret's request -- he only wished it involved more trouble on his part .
Her little protege should have her musical education assuredly -- she should go abroad next year -- and he was DE-lighted -- `` Thank you , '' said the Old Lady , cutting him short again .
`` I am much obliged to you -- and I ask you not to let Miss Gray know anything of my interference .
And I shall not take up any more of your valuable time .
Good afternoon . ''
`` Oh , you mustn't go so soon , '' he said , with some real kindness or clannishness permeating the hateful cordiality of his voice -- for Andrew Cameron was not entirely without the homely virtues of the average man .
He had been a good husband and father ; he had once been very fond of his Cousin Margaret ; and he was really very sorry that `` circumstances '' had `` compelled '' him to act as he had done in that old affair of her father's investment .
`` You must be my guest to-night . ''
`` Thank you .
I must return home to-night , '' said the Old Lady firmly , and there was that in her tone which told Andrew Cameron that it would be useless to urge her .
But he insisted on telephoning for his carriage to drive her to the station .
The Old Lady submitted to this , because she was secretly afraid her own legs would not suffice to carry her there ; she even shook hands with him at parting , and thanked him a second time for granting her request .
`` Not at all , '' he said .
`` Please try to think a little more kindly of me , Cousin Margaret . ''
When the Old Lady reached the station she found , to her dismay , that her train had just gone and that she would have to wait two hours for the evening one .
She went into the waiting-room and sat down .
She was very tired .
All the excitement that had sustained her was gone , and she felt weak and old .
She had nothing to eat , having expected to get home in time for tea ; the waiting-room was chilly , and she shivered in her thin , old , silk mantilla .
Her head ached and her heart likewise .
She had won Sylvia's desire for her ; but Sylvia would go out of her life , and the Old Lady did not see how she was to go on living after that .
Yet she sat there unflinchingly for two hours , an upright , indomitable old figure , silently fighting her losing battle with the forces of physical and mental pain , while happy people came and went , and laughed and talked before her .
At eight o'clock the Old Lady got off the train at Bright River station , and slipped off unnoticed into the darkness of the wet night .
She had two miles to walk , and a cold rain was falling .
Soon the Old Lady was wet to the skin and chilled to the marrow .
She felt as if she were walking in a bad dream .
Blind instinct alone guided her over the last mile and up the lane to her own house .
As she fumbled at her door , she realized that a burning heat had suddenly taken the place of her chilliness .
She stumbled in over her threshold and closed the door .
On the second morning after Old Lady Lloyd's journey to town , Sylvia Gray was walking blithely down the wood lane .
It was a beautiful autumn morning , clear and crisp and sunny ; the frosted ferns , drenched and battered with the rain of yesterday , gave out a delicious fragrance ; here and there in the woods a maple waved a gay crimson banner , or a branch of birch showed pale golden against the dark , unchanging spruces .
The air was very pure and exhilarating .
Sylvia walked with a joyous lightness of step and uplift of brow .
At the beech in the hollow she paused for an expectant moment , but there was nothing among the gray old roots for her .
She was just turning away when little Teddy Kimball , who lived next door to the manse , came running down the slope from the direction of the old Lloyd place .
Teddy's freckled face was very pale .
`` Oh , Miss Gray ! ''
he gasped .
`` I guess Old Lady Lloyd has gone clean crazy at last .
The minister's wife asked me to run up to the Old Lady , with a message about the Sewing Circle -- and I knocked -- and knocked -- and nobody came -- so I thought I 'd just step in and leave the letter on the table .
But when I opened the door , I heard an awful queer laugh in the sitting-room , and next minute , the Old Lady came to the sitting-room door .
Oh , Miss Gray , she looked awful .
Her face was red and her eyes awful wild -- and she was muttering and talking to herself and laughing like mad .
I was so scared I just turned and run . ''
Sylvia , without stopping for reflection , caught Teddy's hand and ran up the slope .
It did not occur to her to be frightened , although she thought with Teddy that the poor , lonely , eccentric Old Lady had really gone out of her mind at last .
The Old Lady was sitting on the kitchen sofa when Sylvia entered .
Teddy , too frightened to go in , lurked on the step outside .
The Old Lady still wore the damp black silk dress in which she had walked from the station .
Her face was flushed , her eyes wild , her voice hoarse .
But she knew Sylvia and cowered down .
`` Don't look at me , '' she moaned .
`` Please go away -- I can't bear that YOU should know how poor I am .
You 're to go to Europe -- Andrew Cameron is going to send you -- I asked him -- he couldn't refuse ME .
But please go away . ''
Sylvia did not go away .
At a glance she had seen that this was sickness and delirium , not insanity .
She sent Teddy off in hot haste for Mrs. Spencer and when Mrs. Spencer came they induced the Old Lady to go to bed , and sent for the doctor .
By night everybody in Spencervale knew that Old Lady Lloyd had pneumonia .
Mrs. Spencer announced that she meant to stay and nurse the Old Lady .
Several other women offered assistance .
Everybody was kind and thoughtful .
But the Old Lady did not know it .
She did not even know Sylvia Gray , who came and sat by her every minute she could spare .
Sylvia Gray now knew all that she had suspected -- the Old Lady was her fairy godmother .
The Old Lady babbled of Sylvia incessantly , revealing all her love for her , betraying all the sacrifices she had made .
Sylvia's heart ached with love and tenderness , and she prayed earnestly that the Old Lady might recover .
`` I want her to know that I give her love for love , '' she murmured .
Everybody knew now how poor the Old Lady really was .
She let slip all the jealously guarded secrets of her existence , except her old love for Leslie Gray .
Even in delirium something sealed her lips as to that .
But all else came out -- her anguish over her unfashionable attire , her pitiful makeshifts and contrivances , her humiliation over wearing unfashionable dresses and paying only five cents where every other Sewing Circle member paid ten .
The kindly women who waited on her listened to her with tear-filled eyes , and repented of their harsh judgments in the past .
`` But who would have thought it ? ''
said Mrs. Spencer to the minister's wife .
`` Nobody ever dreamed that her father had lost ALL his money , though folks supposed he had lost some in that old affair of the silver mine out west .
It's shocking to think of the way she has lived all these years , often with not enough to eat -- and going to bed in winter days to save fuel .
Though I suppose if we had known we couldn't have done much for her , she's so desperate proud .
But if she lives , and will let us help her , things will be different after this .
Crooked Jack says he'll never forgive himself for taking pay for the few little jobs he did for her .
He says , if she'll only let him , he'll do everything she wants done for her after this for nothing .
Ain't it strange what a fancy she's took to Miss Gray ?
Think of her doing all those things for her all summer , and selling the grape jug and all .
Well , the Old Lady certainly isn't mean , but nobody made a mistake in calling her queer .
It all does seem desperate pitiful .
Miss Gray's taking it awful hard .
She seems to think about as much of the Old Lady as the Old Lady thinks of her .
She's so worked up she don't even seem to care about going to Europe next year .
She's really going -- she's had word from Andrew Cameron .
I 'm awful glad , for there never was a sweeter girl in the world ; but she says it will cost too much if the Old Lady's life is to pay for it . ''
Andrew Cameron heard of the Old Lady's illness and came out to Spencervale himself .
He was not allowed to see the Old Lady , of course ; but he told all concerned that no expense or trouble was to be spared , and the Spencervale doctor was instructed to send his bill to Andrew Cameron and hold his peace about it .
Moreover , when Andrew Cameron went back home , he sent a trained nurse out to wait on the Old Lady , a capable , kindly woman who contrived to take charge of the case without offending Mrs. Spencer -- than which no higher tribute could be paid to her tact !
The Old Lady did not die -- the Lloyd constitution brought her through .
One day , when Sylvia came in , the Old Lady smiled up at her , with a weak , faint , sensible smile , and murmured her name , and the nurse said that the crisis was past .
The Old Lady made a marvellously patient and tractable invalid .
She did just as she was told , and accepted the presence of the nurse as a matter of course .
But one day , when she was strong enough to talk a little , she said to Sylvia , `` I suppose Andrew Cameron sent Miss Hayes here , did he ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Sylvia , rather timidly .
The Old Lady noticed the timidity and smiled , with something of her old humour and spirit in her black eyes .
`` Time has been when I 'd have packed off unceremoniously any person Andrew Cameron sent here , '' she said .
`` But , Sylvia , I have gone through the Valley of the Shadow of Death , and I have left pride and resentment behind me for ever , I hope .
I no longer feel as I felt towards Andrew .
I can even accept a personal favour from him now .
At last I can forgive him for the wrong he did me and mine .
Sylvia , I find that I have been letting no ends of cats out of bags in my illness .
Everybody knows now how poor I am -- but I don't seem to mind it a bit .
I 'm only sorry that I ever shut my neighbours out of my life because of my foolish pride .
Everyone has been so kind to me , Sylvia .
In the future , if my life is spared , it is going to be a very different sort of life .
I 'm going to open it to all the kindness and companionship I can find in young and old .
I 'm going to help them all I can and let them help me .
I CAN help people -- I've learned that money isn't the only power for helping people .
Anyone who has sympathy and understanding to give has a treasure that is without money and without price .
And oh , Sylvia , you've found out what I never meant you to know .
But I don't mind that now , either . ''
Sylvia took the Old Lady's thin white hand and kissed it .
`` I can never thank you enough for what you have done for me , dearest Miss Lloyd , '' she said earnestly .
`` And I am so glad that all mystery is done away with between us , and I can love you as much and as openly as I have longed to do .
I am so glad and so thankful that you love me , dear fairy godmother . ''
`` Do you know WHY I love you so ? ''
said the Old Lady wistfully .
`` Did I let THAT out in my raving , too ? ''
`` No , but I think I know .
It is because I am Leslie Gray's daughter , isn't it ?
I know that father loved you -- his brother , Uncle Willis , told me all about it . ''
`` I spoiled my own life because of my wicked pride , '' said the Old Lady sadly .
`` But you will love me in spite of it all , won't you , Sylvia ?
And you will come to see me sometimes ?
And write me after you go away ? ''
`` I am coming to see you every day , '' said Sylvia .
`` I am going to stay in Spencervale for a whole year yet , just to be near you .
And next year when I go to Europe -- thanks to you , fairy godmother -- I'll write you every day .
We are going to be the best of chums , and we are going to have a most beautiful year of comradeship ! ''
The Old Lady smiled contentedly .
Out in the kitchen , the minister's wife , who had brought up a dish of jelly , was talking to Mrs. Spencer about the Sewing Circle .
Through the open window , where the red vines hung , came the pungent , sun-warm October air .
The sunshine fell over Sylvia's chestnut hair like a crown of glory and youth .
`` I do feel so perfectly happy , '' said the Old Lady , with a long , rapturous breath .
