Once upon a time there lived a king and a queen who had one son .
The king loved the boy very much , but the queen , who was a wicked woman , hated the sight of him ; and this was the more unlucky for , when he was twelve years old , his father died , and he was left alone in the world .
Now the queen was very angry because the people , who knew how bad she was , seated her son on the throne instead of herself , and she never rested till she had formed a plan to get him out of the way .
Fortunately , however , the young king was wise and prudent , and knew her too well to trust her .
One day , when his mourning was over , he gave orders that everything should be made ready for a grand hunt .
The queen pretended to be greatly delighted that he was going to amuse himself once more , and declared that she would accompany him .
` No , mother , I can not let you come , ' he answered ; ` the ground is rough , and you are not strong . '
But he might as well have spoken to the winds : when the horn was sounded at daybreak the queen was there with the rest .
All that day they rode , for game was plentiful , but towards evening the mother and son found themselves alone in a part of the country that was strange to them .
They wandered on for some time , without knowing where they were going , till they met with a man whom they begged to give them shelter .
` Come with me , ' said the man gladly , for he was an ogre , and fed on human flesh ; and the king and his mother went with him , and he led them to his house .
When they got there they found to what a dreadful place they had come , and , falling on their knees , they offered him great sums of money , if he would only spare their lives .
The ogre's heart was moved at the sight of the queen's beauty , and he promised that he would do her no harm ; but he stabbed the boy at once , and binding his body on a horse , turned him loose in the forest .
The ogre had happened to choose a horse which he had bought only the day before , and he did not know it was a magician , or he would not have been so foolish as to fix upon it on this occasion .
The horse no sooner had been driven off with the prince's body on its back than it galloped straight to the home of the fairies , and knocked at the door with its hoof .
The fairies heard the knock , but were afraid to open till they had peeped from an upper window to see that it was no giant or ogre who could do them harm .
` Oh , look , sister ! '
cried the first to reach the window , ` it is a horse that has knocked , and on its back there is bound a dead boy , the most beautiful boy in all the world ! '
Then the fairies ran to open the door , and let in the horse and unbound the ropes which fastened the young king on its back .
And they gathered round to admire his beauty , and whispered one to the other : ` We will make him alive again , and will keep him for our brother . '
And so they did , and for many years they all lived together as brothers and sisters .
By-and-by the boy grew into a man , as boys will , and then the oldest of the fairies said to her sisters : ` Now I will marry him , and he shall be really your brother . '
So the young king married the fairy , and they lived happily together in the castle ; but though he loved his wife he still longed to see the world .
At length this longing grew so strong on him that he could bear it no more ; and , calling the fairies together , he said to them : ` Dear wife and sisters , I must leave you for a time , and go out and see the world .
But I shall think of you often , and one day I shall come back to you . '
The fairies wept and begged him to stay , but he would not listen , and at last the eldest , who was his wife , said to him : ` If you really will abandon us , take this lock of my hair with you ; you will find it useful in time of need . '
So she cut off a long curl , and handed it to him .
The prince mounted his horse , and rode on all day without stopping once .
Towards evening he found himself in a desert , and , look where he would , there was no such thing as a house or a man to be seen .
` What am I to do now ? '
he thought .
` If I go to sleep here wild beasts will come and eat me !
Yet both I and my horse are worn out , and can go no further . '
Then suddenly he remembered the fairy's gift , and taking out the curl he said to it : ' I want a castle here , and servants , and dinner , and everything to make me comfortable tonight ; and besides that , I must have a stable and fodder for my horse . '
And in a moment the castle was before him just as he had wished .
In this way he travelled through many countries , till at last he came to a land that was ruled over by a great king .
Leaving his horse outside the walls , he clad himself in the dress of a poor man , and went up to the palace .
The queen , who was looking out of the window , saw him approaching , and filled with pity sent a servant to ask who he was and what he wanted . '
I am a stranger here , ' answered the young king , ` and very poor .
I have come to beg for some work . '
` We have everybody we want , ' said the queen , when the servant told her the young man's reply .
` We have a gate-keeper , and a hall porter , and servants of all sorts in the palace ; the only person we have not got is a goose-boy .
Tell him that he can be our goose-boy if he likes . '
The youth answered that he was quite content to be goose-boy ; and that was how he got his nickname of Paperarello .
And in order that no one should guess that he was any better than a goose-boy should be , he rubbed his face and his rags over with mud , and made himself altogether such a disgusting object that every one crossed over to the other side of the road when he was seen coming .
` Do go and wash yourself , Paperarello ! '
said the queen sometimes , for he did his work so well that she took an interest in him .
` Oh , I should not feel comfortable if I was clean , your Majesty , ' answered he , and went whistling after his geese .
It happened one day that , owing to some accident to the great flour mills which supplied the city , there was no bread to be had , and the king's army had to do without .
When the king heard of it , he sent for the cook , and told him that by the next morning he must have all the bread that the oven , heated seven times over , could bake .
` But , your Majesty , it is not possible , ' cried the poor man in despair .
` The mills have only just begun working , and the flour will not be ground till evening , and how can I heat the oven seven times in one night ? '
` That is your affair , ' answered the King , who , when he took anything into his head , would listen to nothing .
` If you succeed in baking the bread you shall have my daughter to wife , but if you fail your head will pay for it . '
Now Paperarello , who was passing through the hall where the king was giving his orders , heard these words , and said : ` Your Majesty , have no fears ; I will bake your bread . '
` Very well , ' answered the king ; ` but if you fail , you will pay for it with your head ! '
and signed that both should leave his presence .
The cook was still trembling with the thought of what he had escaped , but to his surprise Paperarello did not seem disturbed at all , and when night came he went to sleep as usual .
` Paperarello , ' cried the other servants , when they saw him quietly taking off his clothes , ` you can not go to bed ; you will need every moment of the night for your work .
Remember , the king is not to be played with ! ' '
I really must have some sleep first , ' replied Paperarello , stretching himself and yawning ; and he flung himself on his bed , and was fast asleep in a moment .
In an hour's time , the servants came and shook him by the shoulder .
` Paperarello , are you mad ? '
said they .
` Get up , or you will lose your head . '
` Oh , do let me sleep a little more , answered he .
And this was all he would say , though the servants returned to wake him many times in the night .
At last the dawn broke , and the servants rushed to his room , crying : ` Paperarello !
Paperarello !
get up , the king is coming .
You have baked no bread , and of a surety he will have your head . '
` Oh , don't scream so , ' replied Paperarello , jumping out of bed as he spoke ; and taking the lock of hair in his hand , he went into the kitchen .
And , behold !
there stood the bread piled high -- four , five , six ovens full , and the seventh still waiting to be taken out of the oven .
The servants stood and stared in surprise , and the king said : ` Well done , Paperarello , you have won my daughter . '
And he thought to himself : ` This fellow must really be a magician . '
But when the princess heard what was in store for her she wept bitterly , and declared that never , never would she marry that dirty Paperarello !
However , the king paid no heed to her tears and prayers , and before many days were over the wedding was celebrated with great splendour , though the bridegroom had not taken the trouble to wash himself , and was as dirty as before .
When night came he went as usual to sleep among his geese , and the princess went to the king and said : ` Father , I entreat you to have that horrible Paperarello put to death . '
` No , no ! '
replied her father , ` he is a great magician , and before I put him to death , I must first find out the secret of his power , and then -- we shall see . '
Soon after this a war broke out , and everybody about the palace was very busy polishing up armour and sharpening swords , for the king and his sons were to ride at the head of the army .
Then Paperarello left his geese , and came and told the king that he wished to go to fight also .
The king gave him leave , and told him that he might go to the stable and take any horse he liked from the stables .
So Paperarello examined the horses carefully , but instead of picking out one of the splendid well-groomed creatures , whose skin shone like satin , he chose a poor lame thing , put a saddle on it , and rode after the other men-at-arms who were attending the king .
In a short time he stopped , and said to them : ` My horse can go no further ; you must go on to the war without me , and I will stay here , and make some little clay soldiers , and will play at a battle . '
The men laughed at him for being so childish , and rode on after their master .
Scarcely were they out of sight than Paperarello took out his curl , and wished himself the best armour , the sharpest sword , and the swiftest horse in the world , and the next minute was riding as fast as he could to the field of battle .
The fight had already begun , and the enemy was getting the best of it , when Paperarello rode up , and in a moment the fortunes of the day had changed .
Right and left this strange knight laid about him , and his sword pierced the stoutest breast-plate , and the strongest shield .
He was indeed ' a host in himself , ' and his foes fled before him thinking he was only the first of a troop of such warriors , whom no one could withstand .
When the battle was over , the king sent for him to thank him for his timely help , and to ask what reward he should give him .
` Nothing but your little finger , your Majesty , ' was his answer ; and the king cut off his little finger and gave it to Paperarello , who bowed and hid it in his surcoat .
Then he left the field , and when the soldiers rode back they found him still sitting in the road making whole rows of little clay dolls .
The next day the king went out to fight another battle , and again Paperarello appeared , mounted on his lame horse .
As on the day before , he halted on the road , and sat down to make his clay soldiers ; then a second time he wished himself armour , sword , and a horse , all sharper and better than those he had previously had , and galloped after the rest .
He was only just in time : the enemy had almost beaten the king's army back , and men whispered to each other that if the strange knight did not soon come to their aid , they would be all dead men .
Suddenly someone cried : ` Hold on a little longer , I see him in the distance ; and his armour shines brighter , and his horse runs swifter , than yesterday . '
Then they took fresh heart and fought desperately on till the knight came up , and threw himself into the thick of the battle .
As before , the enemy gave way before him , and in a few minutes the victory remained with the king .
The first thing that the victor did was to send for the knight to thank him for his timely help , and to ask what gift he could bestow on him in token of gratitude .
` Your Majesty's ear , ' answered the knight ; and as the king could not go back from his word , he cut it off and gave it to him .
Paperarello bowed , fastened the ear inside his surcoat and rode away .
In the evening , when they all returned from the battle , there he was , sitting in the road , making clay dolls .
On the third day the same thing happened , and this time he asked for the king's nose as the reward of his aid .
Now , to lose one's nose , is worse even than losing one's ear or one's finger , and the king hesitated as to whether he should comply .
However , he had always prided himself on being an honourable man , so he cut off his nose , and handed it to Paperarello .
Paperarello bowed , put the nose in his surcoat , and rode away .
In the evening , when the king returned from the battle , he found Paperarello sitting in the road making clay dolls .
And Paperarello got up and said to him : ` Do you know who I am ?
I am your dirty goose-boy , yet you have given me your finger , and your ear , and your nose . '
That night , when the king sat at dinner , Paperarello came in , and laying down the ear , and the nose , and the finger on the table , turned and said to the nobles and courtiers who were waiting on the king : ' I am the invincible knight , who rode three times to your help , and I also am a king's son , and no goose-boy as you all think . '
And he went away and washed himself , and dressed himself in fine clothes and entered the hall again , looking so handsome that the proud princess fell in love with him on the spot .
But Paperarello took no notice of her , and said to the king : ` It was kind of you to offer me your daughter in marriage , and for that I thank you ; but I have a wife at home whom I love better , and it is to her that I am going .
But as a token of farewell , I wish that your ear , and nose , and finger may be restored to their proper places . '
So saying , he bade them all goodbye , and went back to his home and his fairy bride , with whom he lived happily till the end of his life .
The Gifts Of The Magician Once upon a time there was an old man who lived in a little hut in the middle of a forest .
His wife was dead , and he had only one son , whom he loved dearly .
Near their hut was a group of birch trees , in which some black-game had made their nests , and the youth had often begged his father's permission to shoot the birds , but the old man always strictly forbade him to do anything of the kind .
One day , however , when the father had gone to a little distance to collect some sticks for the fire , the boy fetched his bow , and shot at a bird that was just flying towards its nest .
But he had not taken proper aim , and the bird was only wounded , and fluttered along the ground .
The boy ran to catch it , but though he ran very fast , and the bird seemed to flutter along very slowly , he never could quite come up with it ; it was always just a little in advance .
But so absorbed was he in the chase that he did not notice for some time that he was now deep in the forest , in a place where he had never been before .
Then he felt it would be foolish to go any further , and he turned to find his way home .
He thought it would be easy enough to follow the path along which he had come , but somehow it was always branching off in unexpected directions .
He looked about for a house where he might stop and ask his way , but there was not a sign of one anywhere , and he was afraid to stand still , for it was cold , and there were many stories of wolves being seen in that part of the forest .
Night fell , and he was beginning to start at every sound , when suddenly a magician came running towards him , with a pack of wolves snapping at his heels .
Then all the boy's courage returned to him .
He took his bow , and aiming an arrow at the largest wolf , shot him through the heart , and a few more arrows soon put the rest to flight .
The magician was full of gratitude to his deliverer , and promised him a reward for his help if the youth would go back with him to his house .
` Indeed there is nothing that would be more welcome to me than a night's lodging , ' answered the boy ; ' I have been wandering all day in the forest , and did not know how to get home again .
` Come with me , you must be hungry as well as tired , ' said the magician , and led the way to his house , where the guest flung himself on a bed , and went fast asleep .
But his host returned to the forest to get some food , for the larder was empty .
While he was absent the housekeeper went to the boy's room and tried to wake him .
She stamped on the floor , and shook him and called to him , telling him that he was in great danger , and must take flight at once .
But nothing would rouse him , and if he did ever open his eyes he shut them again directly .
Soon after , the magician came back from the forest , and told the housekeeper to bring them something to eat .
The meal was quickly ready , and the magician called to the boy to come down and eat it , but he could not be wakened , and they had to sit down to supper without him .
By-and-by the magician went out into the wood again for some more hunting , and on his return he tried afresh to waken the youth .
But finding it quite impossible , he went back for the third time to the forest .
While he was absent the boy woke up and dressed himself .
Then he came downstairs and began to talk to the housekeeper .
The girl had heard how he had saved her master's life , so she said nothing more about his running away , but instead told him that if the magician offered him the choice of a reward , he was to ask for the horse which stood in the third stall of the stable .
By-and-by the old man came back and they all sat down to dinner .
When they had finished the magician said : ` Now , my son , tell me what you will have as the reward of your courage ? '
` Give me the horse that stands in the third stall of your stable , ' answered the youth .
` For I have a long way to go before I get home , and my feet will not carry me so far . '
` Ah !
my son , ' replied the magician , ` it is the best horse in my stable that you want !
Will not anything else please you as well ? '
But the youth declared that it was the horse , and the horse only , that he desired , and in the end the old man gave way .
And besides the horse , the magician gave him a zither , a fiddle , and a flute , saying : ` If you are in danger , touch the zither ; and if no one comes to your aid , then play on the fiddle ; but if that brings no help , blow on the flute . '
The youth thanked the magician , and fastening his treasures about him mounted the horse and rode off .
He had already gone some miles when , to his great surprise , the horse spoke , and said : ` It is no use your returning home just now , your father will only beat you .
Let us visit a few towns first , and something lucky will be sure to happen to us . '
This advice pleased the boy , for he felt himself almost a man by this time , and thought it was high time he saw the world .
When they entered the capital of the country everyone stopped to admire the beauty of the horse .
Even the king heard of it , and came to see the splendid creature with his own eyes .
Indeed , he wanted directly to buy it , and told the youth he would give any price he liked .
The young man hesitated for a moment , but before he could speak , the horse contrived to whisper to him : ` Do not sell me , but ask the king to take me to his stable , and feed me there ; then his other horses will become just as beautiful as I. ' The king was delighted when he was told what the horse had said , and took the animal at once to the stables , and placed it in his own particular stall .
Sure enough , the horse had scarcely eaten a mouthful of corn out of the manger , when the rest of the horses seemed to have undergone a transformation .
Some of them were old favourites which the king had ridden in many wars , and they bore the signs of age and of service .
But now they arched their heads , and pawed the ground with their slender legs as they had been wont to do in days long gone by .
The king's heart beat with delight , but the old groom who had had the care of them stood crossly by , and eyed the owner of this wonderful creature with hate and envy .
Not a day passed without his bringing some story against the youth to his master , but the king understood all about the matter and paid no attention .
At last the groom declared that the young man had boasted that he could find the king's war horse which had strayed into the forest several years ago , and had not been heard of since .
Now the king had never ceased to mourn for his horse , so this time he listened to the tale which the groom had invented , and sent for the youth .
` Find me my horse in three days , ' said he , ` or it will be the worse for you . '
The youth was thunderstruck at this command , but he only bowed , and went off at once to the stable .
` Do not worry yourself , ' answered his own horse .
` Ask the king to give you a hundred oxen , and to let them be killed and cut into small pieces .
Then we will start on our journey , and ride till we reach a certain river .
There a horse will come up to you , but take no notice of him .
Soon another will appear , and this also you must leave alone , but when the third horse shows itself , throw my bridle over it . '
Everything happened just as the horse had said , and the third horse was safely bridled .
Then the other horse spoke again : ` The magician's raven will try to eat us as we ride away , but throw it some of the oxen's flesh , and then I will gallop like the wind , and carry you safe out of the dragon's clutches . '
So the young man did as he was told , and brought the horse back to the king .
The old stableman was very jealous , when he heard of it , and wondered what he could do to injure the youth in the eyes of his royal master .
At last he hit upon a plan , and told the king that the young man had boasted that he could bring home the king's wife , who had vanished many months before , without leaving a trace behind her .
Then the king bade the young man come into his presence , and desired him to fetch the queen home again , as he had boasted he could do .
And if he failed , his head would pay the penalty .
The poor youth's heart stood still as he listened .
Find the queen ?
But how was he to do that , when nobody in the palace had been able to do so !
Slowly he walked to the stable , and laying his head on his horse's shoulder , he said : ` The king has ordered me to bring his wife home again , and how can I do that when she disappeared so long ago , and no one can tell me anything about her ? '
` Cheer up ! '
answered the horse , ` we will manage to find her .
You have only got to ride me back to the same river that we went to yesterday , and I will plunge into it and take my proper shape again .
For I am the king's wife , who was turned into a horse by the magician from whom you saved me . '
Joyfully the young man sprang into the saddle and rode away to the banks of the river .
Then he threw himself off , and waited while the horse plunged in .
The moment it dipped its head into the water its black skin vanished , and the most beautiful woman in the world was floating on the water .
She came smiling towards the youth , and held out her hand , and he took it and led her back to the palace .
Great was the king's surprise and happiness when he beheld his lost wife stand before him , and in gratitude to her rescuer he loaded him with gifts .
You would have thought that after this the poor youth would have been left in peace ; but no , his enemy the stableman hated him as much as ever , and laid a new plot for his undoing .
This time he presented himself before the king and told him that the youth was so puffed up with what he had done that he had declared he would seize the king's throne for himself .
At this news the king waxed so furious that he ordered a gallows to be erected at once , and the young man to be hanged without a trial .
He was not even allowed to speak in his own defence , but on the very steps of the gallows he sent a message to the king and begged , as a last favour , that he might play a tune on his zither .
Leave was given him , and taking the instrument from under his cloak he touched the strings .
Scarcely had the first notes sounded than the hangman and his helper began to dance , and the louder grew the music the higher they capered , till at last they cried for mercy .
But the youth paid no heed , and the tunes rang out more merrily than before , and by the time the sun set they both sank on the ground exhausted , and declared that the hanging must be put off till to-morrow .
The story of the zither soon spread through the town , and on the following morning the king and his whole court and a large crowd of people were gathered at the foot of the gallows to see the youth hanged .
Once more he asked a favour -- permission to play on his fiddle , and this the king was graciously pleased to grant .
But with the first notes , the leg of every man in the crowd was lifted high , and they danced to the sound of the music the whole day till darkness fell , and there was no light to hang the musician by .
The third day came , and the youth asked leave to play on his flute .
` No , no , ' said the king , ` you made me dance all day yesterday , and if I do it again it will certainly be my death .
You shall play no more tunes .
Quick !
the rope round his neck . '
At these words the young man looked so sorrowful that the courtiers said to the king : ` He is very young to die .
Let him play a tune if it will make him happy . '
So , very unwillingly , the king gave him leave ; but first he had himself bound to a big fir tree , for fear that he should be made to dance .
When he was made fast , the young man began to blow softly on his flute , and bound though he was , the king's body moved to the sound , up and down the fir tree till his clothes were in tatters , and the skin nearly rubbed off his back .
But the youth had no pity , and went on blowing , till suddenly the old magician appeared and asked : ` What danger are you in , my son , that you have sent for me ? '
` They want to hang me , ' answered the young man ; ` the gallows are all ready and the hangman is only waiting for me to stop playing . '
` Oh , I will put that right , ' said the magician ; and taking the gallows , he tore it up and flung it into the air , and no one knows where it came down .
` Who has ordered you to be hanged ? '
asked he .
The young man pointed to the king , who was still bound to the fir ; and without wasting words the magician took hold of the tree also , and with a mighty heave both fir and man went spinning through the air , and vanished in the clouds after the gallows .
Then the youth was declared to be free , and the people elected him for their king ; and the stable helper drowned himself from envy , for , after all , if it had not been for him the young man would have remained poor all the days of his life .
