` I 'm so glad to-morrow is Christmas , because I 'm going to have lots of presents . '
` So am I glad , though I don't expect any presents but a pair of mittens . '
` And so am I ; but I shan't have any presents at all . '
As the three little girls trudged home from school they said these things , and as Tilly spoke , both the others looked at her with pity and some surprise , for she spoke cheerfully , and they wondered how she could be happy when she was so poor she could have no presents on Christmas .
` Don't you wish you could find a purse full of money right here in the path ? '
said Kate , the child who was going to have ` lots of presents . '
` Oh , don't I , if I could keep it honestly ! '
and Tilly's eyes shone at the very thought .
` What would you buy ? '
asked Bessy , rubbing her cold hands , and longing for her mittens .
` I 'd buy a pair of large , warm blankets , a load of wood , a shawl for mother , and a pair of shoes for me ; and if there was enough left , I 'd give Bessy a new hat , and then she needn't wear Ben's old felt one , ' answered Tilly .
The girls laughed at that ; but Bessy pulled the funny hat over her ears , and said she was much obliged but she 'd rather have candy .
` Let's look , and maybe we can find a purse .
People are always going about with money at Christmas time , and some one may lose it here , ' said Kate .
So , as they went along the snowy road , they looked about them , half in earnest , half in fun .
Suddenly Tilly sprang forward , exclaiming , -- ' I see it !
I've found it ! '
The others followed , but all stopped disappointed ; for it wasn't a purse , it was only a little bird .
It lay upon the snow with its wings spread and feebly fluttering , as if too weak to fly .
Its little feet were benumbed with cold ; its once bright eyes were dull with pain , and instead of a blithe song , it could only utter a faint chirp , now and then , as if crying for help .
` Nothing but a stupid old robin ; how provoking ! '
cried Kate , sitting down to rest . '
I shan't touch it .
I found one once , and took care of it , and the ungrateful thing flew away the minute it was well , ' said Bessy , creeping under Kate's shawl , and putting her hands under her chin to warm them .
` Poor little birdie !
How pitiful he looks , and how glad he must be to see some one coming to help him !
I'll take him up gently , and carry him home to mother .
Don't be frightened , dear , I 'm your friend ; ' and Tilly knelt down in the snow , stretching her hand to the bird , with the tenderest pity in her face .
Kate and Bessy laughed .
` Don't stop for that thing ; it's getting late and cold : let's go on and look for the purse , ' they said moving away .
` You wouldn't leave it to die ! '
cried Tilly .
` I 'd rather have the bird than the money , so I shan't look any more .
The purse wouldn't be mine , and I should only be tempted to keep it ; but this poor thing will thank and love me , and I 'm so glad I came in time . '
Gently lifting the bird , Tilly felt its tiny cold claws cling to her hand , and saw its dim eyes brighten as it nestled down with a grateful chirp .
` Now I've got a Christmas present after all , ' she said , smiling , as they walked on . '
I always wanted a bird , and this one will be such a pretty pet for me . '
` He'll fly away the first chance he gets , and die anyhow ; so you 'd better not waste your time over him , ' said Bessy .
` He can't pay you for taking care of him , and my mother says it isn't worth while to help folks that can't help us , ' added Kate .
` My mother says , `` Do as you 'd be done by ; '' and I 'm sure I 'd like any one to help me if I was dying of cold and hunger .
`` Love your neighbour as yourself , '' is another of her sayings .
This bird is my little neighbour , and I'll love him and care for him , as I often wish our rich neighbour would love and care for us , ' answered Tilly , breathing her warm breath over the benumbed bird , who looked up at her with confiding eyes , quick to feel and know a friend .
` What a funny girl you are , ' said Kate ; ` caring for that silly bird , and talking about loving your neighbour in that sober way .
Mr. King don't care a bit for you , and never will , though he knows how poor you are ; so I don't think your plan amounts to much . ' '
I believe it , though ; and shall do my part , any way .
Good-night .
I hope you'll have a merry Christmas , and lots of pretty things , ' answered Tilly , as they parted .
Her eyes were full , and she felt so poor as she went on alone toward the little old house where she lived .
It would have been so pleasant to know that she was going to have some of the pretty things all children love to find in their full stockings on Christmas morning .
And pleasanter still to have been able to give her mother something nice .
So many comforts were needed , and there was no hope of getting them ; for they could barely get food and fire .
` Never mind , birdie , we'll make the best of what we have , and be merry in spite of every thing .
You shall have a happy Christmas , any way ; and I know God won't forget us if every one else does . '
She stopped a minute to wipe her eyes , and lean her cheek against the bird's soft breast , finding great comfort in the little creature , though it could only love her , nothing more .
` See , mother , what a nice present I've found , ' she cried , going in with a cheery face that was like sunshine in the dark room .
` I 'm glad of that , dearie ; for I haven't been able to get my little girl anything but a rosy apple .
Poor bird !
Give it some of your warm bread and milk . '
` Why , mother , what a big bowlful !
I 'm afraid you gave me all the milk , ' said Tilly , smiling over the nice , steaming supper that stood ready for her .
` I've had plenty , dear .
Sit down and dry your wet feet , and put the bird in my basket on this warm flannel . '
Tilly peeped into the closet and saw nothing there but dry bread .
` Mother's given me all the milk , and is going without her tea , 'cause she knows I 'm hungry .
Now I'll surprise her , and she shall have a good supper too .
She is going to split wood , and I'll fix it while she's gone . '
So Tilly put down the old tea-pot , carefully poured out a part of the milk , and from her pocket produced a great , plummy bun , that one of the school-children had given her , and she had saved for her mother .
A slice of the dry bread was nicely toasted , and the bit of butter set by for her put on it .
When her mother came in there was the table drawn up in a warm place , a hot cup of tea ready , and Tilly and birdie waiting for her .
Such a poor little supper , and yet such a happy one ; for love , charity , and contentment were guests there , and that Christmas eve was a blither one than that up at the great house , where lights shone , fires blazed , a great tree glittered , and music sounded , as the children danced and played .
` We must go to bed early , for we've only wood enough to last over to-morrow .
I shall be paid for my work the day after , and then we can get some , ' said Tilly's mother , as they sat by the fire .
` If my bird was only a fairy bird , and would give us three wishes , how nice it would be !
Poor dear , he can't give me any thing ; but it's no matter , ' answered Tilly , looking at the robin , who lay in the basket with his head under his wing , a mere little feathery bunch .
` He can give you one thing , Tilly , -- the pleasure of doing good .
That is one of the sweetest things in life ; and the poor can enjoy it as well as the rich . '
As her mother spoke , with her tired hand softly stroking her little daughter's hair , Tilly suddenly started and pointed to the window , saying , in a frightened whisper , -- ' I saw a face , -- a man's face , looking in !
It's gone now ; but I truly saw it . '
` Some traveller attracted by the light perhaps .
I'll go and see . '
And Tilly's mother went to the door .
No one was there .
The wind blew cold , the stars shone , the snow lay white on field and wood , and the Christmas moon was glittering in the sky .
` What sort of a face was it ? '
asked Tilly's mother , coming back . '
A pleasant sort of face , I think ; but I was so startled I don't quite know what it was like .
I wish we had a curtain there , ' said Tilly . '
I like to have our light shine out in the evening , for the road is dark and lonely just here , and the twinkle of our lamp is pleasant to people's eyes as they go by .
We can do so little for our neighbours , I am glad to cheer the way for them .
Now put these poor old shoes to dry , and go to bed , dearie ; I'll come soon . '
Tilly went , taking her bird with her to sleep in his basket near by , lest he should be lonely in the night .
Soon the little house was dark and still , and no one saw the Christmas spirits at their work that night .
When Tilly opened the door next morning , she gave a loud cry , clapped her hands , and then stood still ; quite speechless with wonder and delight .
There , before the door , lay a great pile of wood , all ready to burn , a big bundle and a basket , with a lovely nosegay of winter roses , holly , and evergreen tied to the handle .
` Oh , mother !
did the fairies do it ? '
cried Tilly , pale with her happiness , as she seized the basket , while her mother took in the bundle .
` Yes , dear , the best and dearest fairy in the world , called `` Charity . ''
She walks abroad at Christmas time , does beautiful deeds like this , and does not stay to be thanked , ' answered her mother with full eyes , as she undid the parcel .
There they were , -- the warm , thick blankets , the comfortable shawls , the new shoes , and , best of all , a pretty winter hat for Bessy .
The basket was full of good things to eat , and on the flowers lay a paper , saying , -- ` For the little girl who loves her neighbour as herself . '
` Mother , I really think my bird is a fairy bird , and all these splendid things come from him , ' said Tilly , laughing and crying with joy .
It really did seem so , for as she spoke , the robin flew to the table , hopped to the nosegay , and perching among the roses , began to chirp with all his little might .
The sun streamed in on flowers , bird , and happy child , and no one saw a shadow glide away from the window ; no one ever knew that Mr. King had seen and heard the little girls the night before , or dreamed that the rich neighbour had learned a lesson from the poor neighbour .
And Tilly's bird was a fairy bird ; for by her love and tenderness to the helpless thing , she brought good gifts to herself , happiness to the unknown giver of them , and a faithful little friend who did not fly away , but stayed with her till the snow was gone , making summer for her in the winter-time .
