Once upon a time there lived a man who had two sons but they did not get on at all well together , for the younger was much handsomer than his elder brother who was very jealous of him .
When they grew older , things became worse and worse , and at last one day as they were walking through a wood the elder youth seized hold of the other , tied him to a tree , and went on his way hoping that the boy might starve to death .
However , it happened that an old and humpbacked shepherd passed the tree with his flock , and seeing the prisoner , he stopped and said to him , ` Tell me , my son why are you tied to that tree ? '
` Because I was so crooked , ' answered the young man ; ` but it has quite cured me , and now my back is as straight as can be . ' '
I wish you would bind me to a tree , ' exclaimed the shepherd , ` so that my back would get straight . '
` With all the pleasure in life , ' replied the youth .
` If you will loosen these cords I will tie you up with them as firmly as I can . '
This was soon done , and then the young man drove off the sheep , leaving their real shepherd to repent of his folly ; and before he had gone very far he met with a horse boy and a driver of oxen , and he persuaded them to turn with him and to seek for adventures .
By these and many other tricks he soon became so celebrated that his fame reached the king's ears , and his majesty was filled with curiosity to see the man who had managed to outwit everybody .
So he commanded his guards to capture the young man and bring him before him .
And when the young man stood before the king , the king spoke to him and said , ` By your tricks and the pranks that you have played on other people , you have , in the eye of the law , forfeited your life .
But on one condition I will spare you , and that is , if you will bring me the flying horse that belongs to the great dragon .
Fail in this , and you shall be hewn in a thousand pieces . '
` If that is all , ' said the youth , ` you shall soon have it . '
So he went out and made his way straight to the stable where the flying horse was tethered .
He stretched his hand cautiously out to seize the bridle , when the horse suddenly began to neigh as loud as he could .
Now the room in which the dragon slept was just above the stable , and at the sound of the neighing he woke and cried to the horse , ` What is the matter , my treasure ?
is anything hurting you ? '
After waiting a little while the young man tried again to loose the horse , but a second time it neighed so loudly that the dragon woke up in a hurry and called out to know why the horse was making such a noise .
But when the same thing happened the third time , the dragon lost his temper , and went down into the stable and took a whip and gave the horse a good beating .
This offended the horse and made him angry , and when the young man stretched out his hand to untie his head , he made no further fuss , but suffered himself to be led quietly away .
Once clear of the stable the young man sprang on his back and galloped off , calling over his shoulder , ` Hi !
dragon !
dragon !
if anyone asks you what has become of your horse , you can say that I have got him ! '
But the king said , ` The flying horse is all very well , but I want something more .
You must bring me the covering with the little bells that lies on the bed of the dragon , or I will have you hewn into a thousand pieces . '
` Is that all ? '
answered the youth .
` That is easily done . '
And when night came he went away to the dragon's house and climbed up on to the roof .
Then he opened a little window in the roof and let down the chain from which the kettle usually hung , and tried to hook the bed covering and to draw it up .
But the little bells all began to ring , and the dragon woke and said to his wife , ` Wife , you have pulled off all the bed-clothes ! '
and drew the covering towards him , pulling , as he did so , the young man into the room .
Then the dragon flung himself on the youth and bound him fast with cords saying as he tied the last knot , ` To-morrow when I go to church you must stay at home and kill him and cook him , and when I get back we will eat him together . '
So the following morning the dragoness took hold of the young man and reached down from the shelf a sharp knife with which to kill him .
But as she untied the cords the better to get hold of him , the prisoner caught her by the legs , threw her to the ground , seized her and speedily cut her throat , just as she had been about to do for him , and put her body in the oven .
Then he snatched up the covering and carried it to the king .
The king was seated on his throne when the youth appeared before him and spread out the covering with a deep bow .
` That is not enough , ' said his majesty ; ` you must bring me the dragon himself , or I will have you hewn into a thousand pieces . '
` It shall be done , ' answered the youth ; ` but you must give me two years to manage it , for my beard must grow so that he may not know me . '
` So be it , ' said the king .
And the first thing the young man did when his beard was grown was to take the road to the dragon's house and on the way he met a beggar , whom he persuaded to change clothes with him , and in the beggar's garments he went fearlessly forth to the dragon .
He found his enemy before his house , very busy making a box , and addressed him politely , ` Good morning , your worship .
Have you a morsel of bread ? '
` You must wait , ' replied the dragon , 'till I have finished my box , and then I will see if I can find one . '
` What will you do with the box when it is made ? '
inquired the beggar .
` It is for the young man who killed my wife , and stole my flying horse and my bed covering , ' said the dragon .
` He deserves nothing better , ' answered the beggar , ` for it was an ill deed .
Still that box is too small for him , for he is a big man . '
` You are wrong , ' said the dragon .
` The box is large enough even for me . '
` Well , the rogue is nearly as tall as you , ' replied the beggar , ` and , of course , if you can get in , he can .
But I am sure you would find it a tight fit . '
` No , there is plenty of room , ' said the dragon , tucking himself carefully inside .
But no sooner was he well in , than the young man clapped on the lid and called out , ` Now press hard , just to see if he will be able to get out . '
The dragon pressed as hard as he could , but the lid never moved .
` It is all right , ' he cried ; ` now you can open it . '
But instead of opening it , the young man drove in long nails to make it tighter still ; then he took the box on his back and brought it to the king .
And when the king heard that the dragon was inside , he was so excited that he would not wait one moment , but broke the lock and lifted the lid just a little way to make sure he was really there .
He was very careful not to leave enough space for the dragon to jump out , but unluckily there was just room for his great mouth , and with one snap the king vanished down his wide red jaws .
Then the young man married the king's daughter and ruled over the land , but what he did with the dragon nobody knows .
The Goblin and the Grocer Translated from the German of Hans Andersen .
There was once a hard-working student who lived in an attic , and he had nothing in the world of his own .
There was also a hard-working grocer who lived on the first floor , and he had the whole house for his own .
The Goblin belonged to him , for every Christmas Eve there was waiting for him at the grocer's a dish of jam with a large lump of butter in the middle .
The grocer could afford this , so the Goblin stayed in the grocer's shop ; and this teaches us a good deal .
One evening the student came in by the back door to buy a candle and some cheese ; he had no one to send , so he came himself .
He got what he wanted , paid for it , and nodded a good evening to the grocer and his wife , she was a woman who could do more than nod ; she could talk , .
When the student had said good night he suddenly stood still , reading the sheet of paper in which the cheese had been wrapped .
It was a leaf torn out of an old book -- a book of poetry ` There's more of that over there ! '
said the grocer ' I gave an old woman some coffee for the book .
If you like to give me twopence you can have the rest . '
` Yes , ' said the student , ` give me the book instead of the cheese .
I can eat my bread without cheese .
It would be a shame to leave the book to be torn up .
You are a clever and practical man , but about poetry you understand as much as that old tub over there ! '
And that sounded rude as far as the tub was concerned , but the grocer laughed , and so did the student .
It was only said in fun .
But the Goblin was angry that anyone should dare to say such a thing to a grocer who owned the house and sold the best butter .
When it was night and the shop was shut , and everyone was in bed except the student , the Goblin went upstairs and took the grocer's wife's tongue .
She did not use it when she was asleep , and on whatever object in the room he put it that thing began to speak , and spoke out its thoughts and feelings just as well as the lady to whom it belonged .
But only one thing at a time could use it , and that was a good thing , or they would have all spoken together .
The Goblin laid the tongue on the tub in which were the old newspapers .
` Is it true , ' he asked , ' that you know nothing about poetry ? '
` Certainly not ! '
answered the tub .
` Poetry is something that is in the papers , and that is frequently cut out .
I have a great deal more in me than the student has , and yet I am only a small tub in the grocer's shop . '
And the Goblin put the tongue on the coffee-mill , and how it began to grind !
He put it on the butter-cask , and on the till , and all were of the same opinion as the waste-paper tub .
and one must believe the majority .
` Now I will tell the student ! '
and with these words he crept softly up the stairs to the attic where the student lived .
There was a light burning , and the Goblin peeped through the key-hole and saw that he was reading the torn book that he had bought in the shop .
But how bright it was !
Out of the book shot a streak of light which grew into a large tree and spread its branches far above the student .
Every leaf was alive , and every flower was a beautiful girl's head , some with dark and shining eyes , others with wonderful blue ones .
Every fruit was a glittering star , and there was a marvellous music in the student's room .
The little Goblin had never even dreamt of such a splendid sight , much less seen it .
He stood on tiptoe gazing and gazing , till the candle in the attic was put out ; the student had blown it out and had gone to bed , but the Goblin remained standing outside listening to the music , which very softly and sweetly was now singing the student a lullaby . '
I have never seen anything like this ! '
said the Goblin . '
I never expected this !
I must stay with the student . '
The little fellow thought it over , for he was a sensible Goblin .
Then he sighed , ` The student has no jam ! '
And on that he went down to the grocer again .
And it was a good thing that he did go back , for the tub had nearly worn out the tongue .
It had read everything that was inside it , on the one side , and was just going to turn itself round and read from the other side when the Goblin came in and returned the tongue to its owner .
But the whole shop , from the till down to the shavings , from that night changed their opinion of the tub , and they looked up to it , and had such faith in it that they were under the impression that when the grocer read the art and drama critiques out of the paper in the evenings , it all came from the tub .
But the Goblin could no longer sit quietly listening to the wisdom and intellect downstairs .
No , as soon as the light shone in the evening from the attic it seemed to him as though its beams were strong ropes dragging him up , and he had to go and peep through the key-hole .
There he felt the sort of feeling we have looking at the great rolling sea in a storm , and he burst into tears .
He could not himself say why he wept , but in spite of his tears he felt quite happy .
How beautiful it must be to sit under that tree with the student , but that he could not do ; he had to content himself with the key-hole and be happy there !
There he stood out on the cold landing , the autumn wind blowing through the cracks of the floor .
It was cold -- very cold , but he first found it out when the light in the attic was put out and the music in the wood died away .
Ah !
then it froze him , and he crept down again into his warm corner ; there it was comfortable and cosy .
When Christmas came , and with it the jam with the large lump of butter , ah !
then the grocer was first with him .
But in the middle of the night the Goblin awoke , hearing a great noise and knocking against the shutters -- people hammering from outside .
The watchman was blowing his horn : a great fire had broken out ; the whole town was in flames .
Was it in the house ?
or was it at a neighbour's ?
Where was it ?
The alarm increased .
The grocer's wife was so terrified that she took her gold earrings out of her ears and put them in her pocket in order to save something .
The grocer seized his account books .
and the maid her black silk dress .
Everyone wanted to save his most valuable possession ; so did the Goblin , and in a few leaps he was up the stairs and in the student's room .
He was standing quietly by the open window looking at the fire that was burning in the neighbour's house just opposite .
The Goblin seized the book lying on the table , put it in his red cap , and clasped it with both hands .
The best treasure in the house was saved , and he climbed out on to the roof with it -- on to the chimney .
There he sat , lighted up by the flames from the burning house opposite , both hands holding tightly on his red cap , in which lay the treasure ; and now he knew what his heart really valued most -- to whom he really belonged .
But when the fire was put out , and the Goblin thought it over -- then -- ' I will divide myself between the two , ' he said . '
I can not quite give up the grocer , because of the jam ! '
And it is just the same with us .
We also can not quite give up the grocer -- because of the jam .
