Of course there was nobody for us to play with on the Big Half Moon , but then , as Claude says , you can't have everything .
We just had to make the most of each other , and we did .
The Big Half Moon is miles from anywhere , except the Little Half Moon .
But nobody lives there , so that doesn't count .
We live on the Big Half Moon .
`` We '' are Father and Claude and I and Aunt Esther and Mimi and Dick .
It used to be only Father and Claude and I .
It is all on account of the kite that there are more of us .
This is what I want to tell you about .
Father is the keeper of the Big Half Moon lighthouse .
He has always been the keeper ever since I can remember , although that isn't very long .
I am only eleven years old .
Claude is twelve .
In winter , when the harbour is frozen over , there isn't any need of a light on the Big Half Moon , and we all move over to the mainland , and Claude and Mimi and Dick and I go to school .
But as soon as spring comes , back we sail to our own dear island , so glad that we don't know what to do with ourselves .
The funny part used to be that people always pitied us when the time came for us to return .
They said we must be so lonesome over there , with no other children near us , and not even a woman to look after us .
Why , Claude and I were never lonesome .
There was always so much to do , and Claude is splendid at making believe .
He makes the very best pirate chief I ever saw .
Dick is pretty good , but he can never roar out his orders in the bloodcurdling tones that Claude can .
Of course Claude and I would have liked to have someone to play with us , because it is hard to run pirate caves and things like that with only two .
But we used to quarrel a good deal with the mainland children in winter , so perhaps it was just as well that there were none of them on the Big Half Moon .
Claude and I never quarrelled .
We used to argue sometimes and get excited , but that was as far as it ever went .
When I saw Claude getting too excited I gave in to him .
He is a boy , you know , and they have to be humoured ; they are not like girls .
As for having a woman to look after us , I thought that just too silly , and so did Claude .
What did we need with a woman when we had Father ?
He could cook all we wanted to eat and make molasses taffy that was just like a dream .
He kept our clothes all mended , and everything about the lighthouse was neat as wax .
Of course I helped him lots .
I like pottering round .
He used to hear our lessons and tell us splendid stories and saw that we always said our prayers .
Claude and I wouldn't have done anything to make him feel bad for the world .
Father is just lovely .
To be sure , he didn't seem to have any relations except us .
This used to puzzle Claude and me .
Everybody on the mainland had relations ; why hadn't we ?
Was it because we lived on an island ?
We thought it would be so jolly to have an uncle and aunt and some cousins .
Once we asked Father about it , but he looked so sorrowful all of a sudden that we wished we hadn't .
He said it was all his fault .
I didn't see how that could be , but I never said anything more about it to Father .
Still , I did wish we had some relations .
It is always lovely out here on the Big Half Moon in summer .
When it is fine the harbour is blue and calm , with little winds and ripples purring over it , and the mainland shores look like long blue lands where fairies dwell .
Away out over the bar , where the big ships go , it is always hazy and pearl-tinted , like the inside of the mussel shells .
Claude says he is going to sail out there when he grows up .
I would like to too , but Claude says I can't because I 'm a girl .
It is dreadfully inconvenient to be a girl at times .
When it storms it is grand to see the great waves come crashing up against the Big Half Moon as if they meant to swallow it right down .
You can't see the Little Half Moon at all then ; it is hidden by the mist and spume .
We had our pirate cave away up among the rocks , where we kept an old pistol with the lock broken , a rusty cutlass , a pair of knee boots , and Claude 's jute beard and wig .
Down on the shore , around one of the horns of the Half Moon , was the Mermaid 's Pool , where we sailed our toy boats and watched for sea kelpies .
We never saw any .
Dick says there is no such thing as a kelpy .
But then Dick has no imagination .
It is no argument against a thing that you've never seen it .
I have never seen the pyramids , either , but I know that there are pyramids .
Every summer we had some hobby .
The last summer before Dick and Mimi came we were crazy about kites .
A winter boy on the mainland showed Claude how to make them , and when we went back to the Big Half Moon we made kites galore .
Even pirating wasn't such good fun .
Claude would go around to the other side of the Big Half Moon and we would play shipwrecked mariners signalling to each other with kites .
Oh , it was very exciting .
We had one kite that was a dandy .
It was as big as we could make it and covered with lovely red paper ; we had pasted gold tinsel stars all over it and written our names out in full on it -- Claude Martin Leete and Philippa Brewster Leete , Big Half Moon Lighthouse .
That kite had the most magnificent tail , too .
It used to scare the gulls nearly to death when we sent up our kites .
They didn't know what to make of them .
And the Big Half Moon is such a place for gulls -- there are hundreds of them here .
One day there was a grand wind for kite-flying , and Claude and I were having a splendid time .
We used our smaller kites for signalling , and when we got tired of that Claude sent me to the house for the big one .
I 'm sure I don't know how it happened , but when I was coming back over the rocks I tripped and fell , and my elbow went clear through that lovely kite .
You would never have believed that one small elbow could make such a big hole .
Claude said it was just like a girl to fall and stick her elbow through a kite , but I don't see why it should be any more like a girl than a boy .
Do you ?
We had to hurry to fix the kite if we wanted to send it up before the wind fell , so we rushed into the lighthouse to get some paper .
We knew there was no more red paper , and the looks of the kite were spoiled , anyhow , so we just took the first thing that came handy -- an old letter that was lying on the bookcase in the sitting-room .
I suppose we shouldn't have taken it , although , as matters turned out , it was the best thing we could have done ; but Father was away to the mainland to buy things , and we never thought it could make any difference about an old yellow letter .
It was one Father had taken from a drawer in the bookcase which he had cleaned out the night before .
We patched the kite up with the letter , a sheet on each side , and dried it by the fire .
Then we started out , and up went the kite like a bird .
The wind was glorious , and it soared and strained like something alive .
All at once -- snap !
And there was Claude , standing with a bit of cord in his hand , looking as foolish as a flatfish , and our kite sailing along at a fearful rate of speed over to the mainland .
I might have said to Claude , So like a boy !
but I didn't .
Instead , I sympathized with him , and pointed out that it really didn't matter because I had spoiled it by jabbing my elbow through it .
By this time the kite was out of sight , and we never expected to see or hear of it again .
* * * * * A month later a letter came to the Big Half Moon for Father .
Jake Wiggins brought it over in his sloop .
Father went off by himself to read it , and such a queer-looking face as he had when he came back !
His eyes looked as if he had been crying , but that couldn't be , I suppose , because Claude says men never cry .
Anyhow , his face was all glad and soft and smiley .
`` Do you two young pirates and freebooters want to know what has become of your kite ? ''
he said .
Then he sat down beside us on the rocks at the Mermaid 's Pool and told us the whole story , and read his letter to us .
It was the most amazing thing .
It seems Father had had relations after all -- a brother and a sister in particular .
But when he was a young man he quarrelled with his brother , who didn't treat him very well -- but he 's been dead for years , so I won't say a word against him -- and had gone away from home .
He never went back , and he never even let them know he was living .
Father says that this was very wrong of him , and I suppose it was , since he says so ; but I don't see how Father could do anything wrong .
Anyway , he had a sister Esther whom he loved very much ; but he felt bitter against her too , because he thought she took his brother 's part too much .
So , though a letter of hers , asking him to go back , did reach him , he never answered it , and he never heard anything more .
Years afterward he felt sorry and went back , but his brother was dead and his sister had gone away , and he couldn't find out a single thing about her .
So much for that ; and now about the kite .
The letter Father had just received was from his sister , our Aunt Esther and the mother of Dick and Mimi .
She was living at a place hundreds of miles inland .
Her husband was dead and , as we found out later , although she did not say a word about it in the letter , she was very poor .
One day when Dick and Mimi were out in the woods looking for botany specimens they saw something funny in the top of a tree .
Dick climbed up and got it .
It was a big red kite with a patch on each side and names written on it .
They carried it home to their mother .
Dick has since told us that she turned as pale as the dead when she saw our names on it .
You see , Philippa was her mother 's name and Claude was her father 's .
And when she read the letter that was pasted over the hole in the kite she knew who we must be , for it was the very letter she had written to her brother so long ago .
So she sat right down and wrote again , and this was the letter Jake Wiggins brought to the Big Half Moon .
It was a beautiful letter .
I loved Aunt Esther before I ever saw her , just from that letter .
Next day Father got Jake to take his place for a few days , and he left Claude and me over on the mainland while he went to see Aunt Esther .
When he came back he brought Aunt Esther and Dick and Mimi with him , and they have been here ever since .
You don't know how splendid it is !
Aunt Esther is such a dear , and Dick and Mimi are too jolly for words .
They love the Big Half Moon as well as Claude and I do , and Dick makes a perfectly elegant shipwrecked mariner .
But the best of it all is that we have relations now !
