Patty came in from her walk to the post office with cheeks finely reddened by the crisp air .
Carry surveyed her with pleasure .
Of late Patty's cheeks had been entirely too pale to please Carry , and Patty had not had a very good appetite .
Once or twice she had even complained of a headache .
So Carry had sent her to the office for a walk that night , although the post office trip was usually Carry's own special constitutional , always very welcome to her after a weary day of sewing on other people's pretty dresses .
Carry never sewed on pretty dresses for herself , for the simple reason that she never had any pretty dresses .
Carry was twenty-two -- and feeling forty , her last pretty dress had been when she was a girl of twelve , before her father had died .
To be sure , there was the silk organdie Aunt Kathleen had sent her , but that was fit only for parties , and Carry never went to any parties .
`` Did you get any mail , Patty ? ''
she asked unexpectantly .
There was never much mail for the Lea girls .
`` Yes 'm , '' said Patty briskly .
`` Here's the Weekly Advocate , and a patent medicine almanac with all your dreams expounded , and a letter for Miss Carry M. Lea .
It's postmarked Enfield , and has a suspiciously matrimonial look .
I 'm sure it's an invitation to Chris Fairley's wedding .
Hurry up and see , Caddy . ''
Carry , with a little flush of excitement on her face , opened her letter .
Sure enough , it contained an invitation `` to be present at the marriage of Christine Fairley . ''
`` How jolly ! ''
exclaimed Patty .
`` Of course you'll go , Caddy .
You'll have a chance to wear that lovely organdie of yours at last . ''
`` It was sweet of Chris to invite me , '' said Carry .
`` I really didn't expect it . ''
`` Well , I did .
Wasn't she your most intimate friend when she lived in Enderby ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but it is four years since she left , and some people might forget in four years .
But I might have known Chris wouldn't .
Of course I'll go . ''
`` And you'll make up your organdie ? ''
`` I shall have to , '' laughed Carry , forgetting all her troubles for a moment , and feeling young and joyous over the prospect of a festivity .
`` I haven't another thing that would do to wear to a wedding .
If I hadn't that blessed organdie I couldn't go , that's all . ''
`` But you have it , and it will look lovely made up with a tucked skirt .
Tucks are so fashionable now .
And there's that lace of mine you can have for a bertha .
I want you to look just right , you see .
Enfield is a big place , and there will be lots of grandees at the wedding .
Let's get the last fashion sheet and pick out a design right away .
Here's one on the very first page that would be nice .
You could wear it to perfection , Caddy you 're so tall and slender .
It wouldn't suit a plump and podgy person like myself at all . ''
Carry liked the pattern , and they had an animated discussion over it .
But , in the end , Carry sighed , and pushed the sheet away from her , with all the brightness gone out of face .
`` It's no use , Patty .
I 'd forgotten for a few minutes , but it's all come back now .
I can't think of weddings and new dresses , when the thought of that interest crowds everything else out .
It's due next month -- fifty dollars -- and I've only ten saved up .
I can't make forty dollars in a month , even if I had any amount of sewing , and you know hardly anyone wants sewing done just now .
I don't know what we shall do .
Oh , I suppose we can rent a couple of rooms in the village and exist in them .
But it breaks my heart to think of leaving our old home . ''
`` Perhaps Mr. Kerr will let us have more time , '' suggested Patty , not very hopefully .
The sparkle had gone out of her face too .
Patty loved their little home as much as Carry did .
`` You know he won't .
He has been only too anxious for an excuse to foreclose , this long time .
He wants the land the house is on .
Oh , if I only hadn't been sick so long in the summer -- just when everybody had sewing to do .
I've tried so hard to catch up , but I couldn't . ''
Carry's voice broke in a sob .
Patty leaned over the table and patted her sister's glossy dark hair gently .
`` You've worked too hard , dearie .
You've just gone to skin and bone .
Oh , I know how hard it is !
I can't bear to think of leaving this dear old spot either .
If we could only induce Mr. Kerr to give us a year's grace !
I 'd be teaching then , and we could easily pay the interest and some of the principal too .
Perhaps he will if we both go to him and coax very hard .
Anyway , don't worry over it till after the wedding .
I want you to go and have a good time .
You never have good times , Carry . ''
`` Neither do you , '' said Carry rebelliously .
`` You never have anything that other girls have , Patty -- not even pretty clothes . ''
`` Deed , and I've lots of things to be thankful for , '' said Patty cheerily .
`` Don't you fret about me .
I 'm vain enough to think I've got some brains anyway , and I 'm a-meaning to do something with them too .
Now I think I'll go upstairs and study this evening .
It will be warm enough there tonight , and the noise of the machine rather bothers me . ''
Patty whisked out , and Carry knew she should go to her sewing .
But she sat a long while at the table in dismal thought .
She was so tired , and so hopeless .
It had been such a hard struggle , and it seemed now as if it would all come to naught .
For five years , ever since her mother's death , Carry had supported herself and Patty by dressmaking .
They had been a hard five years of pinching and economizing and going without , for Enderby was only a small place , and there were two other dressmakers .
Then there was always the mortgage to devour everything .
Carry had kept it at bay till now , but at last she was conquered .
She had had typhoid fever in the spring and had not been able to work for a long time .
Indeed , she had gone to work before she should .
The doctor's bill was yet unpaid , but Dr. Hamilton had told her to take her time .
Carry knew she would not be pressed for that , and next year Patty would be able to help her .
But next year would be too late .
The dear little home would be lost then .
When Carry roused herself from her sad reflections , she saw a crumpled note lying on the floor .
She picked it up and absently smoothed it out .
Seeing Patty's name at the top she was about to lay it aside without reading it , but the lines were few , and the sense of them flashed into Carry's brain .
The note was an invitation to Clare Forbes's party !
The Lea girls had known that the Forbes girls were going to give a party , but they had not expected that Patty would be invited .
Of course , Clare Forbes was in Patty's class at school and was always very nice and friendly with her .
But then the Forbes set was not the Lea set .
Carry ran upstairs to Patty's room .
`` Patty , you dropped this on the floor .
I couldn't help seeing what it was .
Why didn't you tell me Clare had invited you ? ''
`` Because I knew I couldn't go , and I thought you would feel badly over that .
Caddy , I wish you hadn't seen it . ''
`` Oh , Patty , I do wish you could go to the party .
It was so sweet of Clare to invite you , and perhaps she will be offended if you don't go -- she won't understand .
Clare Forbes isn't a girl whose friendship is to be lightly thrown away when it is offered . ''
`` I know that .
But , Caddy dear , it is impossible .
I don't think that I have any foolish pride about clothes , but you know it is out of the question to think of going to Clare Forbes's party in my last winter's plaid dress , which is a good two inches too short and skimpy in proportion .
Putting my own feelings aside , it would be an insult to Clare .
There , don't think any more about it . ''
But Carry did think about it .
She lay awake half the night wondering if there might not be some way for Patty to go to that party .
She knew it was impossible , unless Patty had a new dress , and how could a new dress be had ?
Yet she did so want Patty to go .
Patty never had any good times , and she was studying so hard .
Then , all at once , Carry thought of a way by which Patty might have a new dress .
She had been tossing restlessly , but now she lay very still , staring with wide-open eyes at the moonlit window , with the big willow boughs branching darkly across it .
Yes , it was a way , but could she ?
Could she ?
Yes , she could , and she would .
Carry buried her face in her pillow with a sob and a gulp .
But she had decided what must be done , and how it must be done .
`` Are you going to begin on your organdie today ? ''
asked Patty in the morning , before she started for school .
`` I must finish Mrs. Pidgeon's suit first , '' Carry answered .
`` Next week will be time enough to think about my wedding garments . ''
She tried to laugh and failed .
Patty thought with a pang that Carry looked horribly pale and tired -- probably she had worried most of the night over the interest .
`` I 'm so glad she's going to Chris's wedding , '' thought Patty , as she hurried down the street .
`` It will take her out of herself and give her something nice to think of for ever so long . ''
Nothing more was said that week about the organdie , or the wedding , or the Forbes's party .
Carry sewed fiercely , and sat at her machine for hours after Patty had gone to bed .
The night before the party she said to Patty , `` Braid your hair tonight , Patty .
You'll want it nice and wavy to go to the Forbes's tomorrow night . ''
Patty thought that Carry was actually trying to perpetrate a weak joke , and endeavoured to laugh .
But it was a rather dreary laugh .
Patty , after a hard evening's study , felt tired and discouraged , and she was really dreadfully disappointed about the party , although she wouldn't have let Carry suspect it for the world .
`` You 're going , you know , '' said Carry , as serious as a judge , although there was a little twinkle in her eyes .
`` In a faded plaid two inches too short ? ''
Patty smiled as brightly as possible .
`` Oh , no .
I have a dress all ready for you . ''
Carry opened the wardrobe door and took out -- the loveliest girlish dress of creamy organdie , with pale pink roses scattered over it , made with the daintiest of ruffles and tucks , with a bertha of soft creamy lace , and a girdle of white silk .
`` This is for you , '' said Carry .
Patty gazed at the dress with horror-stricken eyes .
`` Caroline Lea , that is your organdie !
And you've gone and made it up for me !
Carry Lea , what are you going to wear to the wedding ? ''
`` Nothing .
I 'm not going . ''
`` You are -- you must -- you shall .
I won't take the organdie . ''
`` You'll have to now , because it's made to fit you .
Come , Patty dear , I've set my heart on your going to that party .
You mustn't disappoint me -- you can't , for what good would it do ?
I can never wear the dress now . ''
Patty realized that .
She knew she might as well go to the party , but she did not feel much pleasure in the prospect .
Nevertheless , when she was ready for it the next evening , she couldn't help a little thrill of delight .
The dress was so pretty , and dainty , and becoming .
`` You look sweet , '' exclaimed Carry admiringly .
`` There , I hear the Browns ' carriage .
Patty , I want you to promise me this -- that you'll not let any thought of me , or my not going to the wedding , spoil your enjoyment this evening .
I gave you the dress that you might have a good time , so don't make my gift of no effect . ''
`` I'll try , '' promised Patty , flying downstairs , where her next-door neighbours were waiting for her .
At two o'clock that night Carry was awakened to see Patty bending over her , flushed and radiant .
Carry sat sleepily up .
`` I hope you had a good time , '' she said .
`` I had -- oh , I had -- but I didn't waken you out of your hard-earned slumbers at this wee sma ' hour to tell you that .
Carry , I've thought of a way for you to go to the wedding .
It just came to me at supper .
Mrs. Forbes was sitting opposite to me , and her dress suggested it .
You must make over Aunt Caroline's silk dress . ''
`` Nonsense , '' said Carry , a little crossly ; even sweet-tempered people are sometimes cross when they are wakened up for -- as it seemed -- nothing .
`` It's good plain sense .
Of course , you must make it over and -- '' `` Patty Lea , you 're crazy .
I wouldn't dream of wearing that hideous thing .
Bright green silk , with huge yellow brocade flowers as big as cabbages all over it !
I think I see myself in it . ''
`` Caddy , listen to me .
You know there's enough of that black lace of mother's for the waist , and the big black lace shawl of Grandmother Lea's will do for the skirt .
Make it over -- '' `` A plain slip of the silk , '' gasped Carry , her quick brain seizing on all the possibilities of the plan .
`` Why didn't I think of it before ?
It will be just the thing , the greens and yellow will be toned down to a nice shimmer under the black lace .
And I'll make cuffs of black velvet with double puffs above -- and just cut out a wee bit at the throat with a frill of lace and a band of black velvet ribbon around my neck .
Patty Lea , it's an inspiration . ''
Carry was out of bed by daylight the next morning and , while Patty still slumbered , she mounted to the garret , and took Aunt Caroline's silk dress from the chest where it had lain forgotten for three years .
Carry held it up at arm's length , and looked at it with amusement .
`` It is certainly ugly , but with the lace over it it will look very different .
There's enough of it , anyway , and that skirt is stiff enough to stand alone .
Poor Aunt Caroline , I 'm afraid I wasn't particularly grateful for her gift at the time , but I really am now . ''
Aunt Caroline , who had given the dress to Carry three years before , was , an old lady of eighty , the aunt of Carry's father .
She had once possessed a snug farm but in an evil hour she had been persuaded to deed it to her nephew , Edward Curry , whom she had brought up .
Poor Aunt Caroline had lived to regret this step , for everyone in Enderby knew that Edward Curry and his wife had repaid her with ingratitude and greed .
Carry , who was named for her , was her favourite grandniece and often went to see her , though such visits were coldly received by the Currys , who always took especial care never to leave Aunt Caroline alone with any of her relatives .
On one occasion , when Carry was there , Aunt Caroline had brought out this silk dress .
`` I 'm going to give this to you , Carry , '' she said timidly .
`` It's a good silk , and not so very old .
Mr. Greenley gave it to me for a birthday present fifteen years ago .
Maybe you can make it over for yourself . ''
Mrs. Edward , who was on duty at the time , sniffed disagreeably , but she said nothing .
The dress was of no value in her eyes , for the pattern was so ugly and old-fashioned that none of her smart daughters would have worn it .
Had it been otherwise , Aunt Caroline would probably not have been allowed to give it away .
Carry had thanked Aunt Caroline sincerely .
If she did not care much for the silk , she at least prized the kindly motive behind the gift .
Perhaps she and Patty laughed a little over it as they packed it away in the garret .
It was so very ugly , but Carry thought it was sweet of Aunt Caroline to have given her something .
Poor old Aunt Caroline had died soon after , and Carry had not thought about the silk dress again .
She had too many other things to think of , this poor worried Carry .
After breakfast Carry began to rip the skirt breadths apart .
Snip , snip , went her scissors , while her thoughts roamed far afield -- now looking forward with renewed pleasure to Christine's wedding , now dwelling dolefully on the mortgage .
Patty , who was washing the dishes , knew just what her thoughts were by the light and shadow on her expressive face .
`` Why !
-- what ? ''
exclaimed Carry suddenly .
Patty wheeled about to see Carry staring at the silk dress like one bewitched .
Between the silk and the lining which she had just ripped apart was a twenty-dollar bill , and beside it a sheet of letter paper covered with writing in a cramped angular hand , both secured very carefully to the silk .
`` Carry Lea ! ''
gasped Patty .
With trembling fingers Carry snipped away the stitches that held the letter , and read it aloud .
`` My dear Caroline , '' it ran , `` I do not know when you will find this letter and this money , but when you do it belongs to you .
I have a hundred dollars which I always meant to give you because you were named for me .
But Edward and his wife do not know I have it , and I don't want them to find out .
They would not let me give it to you if they knew , so I have thought of this way of getting it to you .
I have sewed five twenty-dollar bills under the lining of this skirt , and they are all yours , with your Aunt Caroline's best love .
You were always a good girl , Carry , and you've worked hard , and I've given Edward enough .
Just take this money and use it as you like .
`` Aunt Caroline Greenley . ''
`` Carry Lea , are we both dreaming ? ''
gasped Patty .
With crimson cheeks Carry ripped the other breadths apart , and there were the other four bills .
Then she slipped down in a little heap on the sofa cushions and began to cry -- happy tears of relief and gladness .
`` We can pay the interest , '' said Patty , dancing around the room , `` and get yourself a nice new dress for the wedding . ''
`` Indeed I won't , '' said Carry , sitting up and laughing through her tears .
`` I'll make over this dress and wear it out of gratitude to the memory of dear Aunt Caroline . ''
