Freda's snuggery was aglow with the rose-red splendour of an open fire which was triumphantly warding off the stealthy approaches of the dull grey autumn twilight .
Roger St. Clair stretched himself out luxuriously in an easy-chair with a sigh of pleasure .
`` Freda , your armchairs are the most comfy in the world .
How do you get them to fit into a fellow's kinks so splendidly ? ''
Freda smiled at him out of big , owlish eyes that were the same tint as the coppery grey sea upon which the north window of the snuggery looked .
`` Any armchair will fit a lazy fellow's kinks , '' she said .
`` I 'm not lazy , '' protested Roger .
`` That you should say so , Freda , when I have wheeled all the way out of town this dismal afternoon over the worst bicycle road in three kingdoms to see you , bonnie maid ! ''
`` I like lazy people , '' said Freda softly , tilting her spoon on a cup of chocolate with a slender brown hand .
Roger smiled at her chummily .
`` You are such a comfortable girl , '' he said .
`` I like to talk to you and tell you things . ''
`` You have something to tell me today .
It has been fairly sticking out of your eyes ever since you came .
Now , ` fess . ''
Freda put away her cup and saucer , got up , and stood by the fireplace , with one arm outstretched along the quaintly carved old mantel .
She laid her head down on its curve and looked expectantly at Roger .
`` I have seen my ideal , Freda , '' said Roger gravely .
Freda lifted her head and then laid it down again .
She did not speak .
Roger was glad of it .
Even at the moment he found himself thinking that Freda had a genius for silence .
Any other girl he knew would have broken in at once with surprised exclamations and questions and spoiled his story .
`` You have not forgotten what my ideal woman is like ? ''
he said .
Freda shook her head .
She was not likely to forget .
She remembered only too keenly the afternoon he had told her .
They had been sitting in the snuggery , herself in the inglenook , and Roger coiled up in his big pet chair that nobody else ever sat in . ''
` What must my lady be that I must love her ? ' ''
he had quoted .
`` Well , I will paint my dream-love for you , Freda .
She must be tall and slender , with chestnut hair of wonderful gloss , with just the suggestion of a ripple in it .
She must have an oval face , colourless ivory in hue , with the expression of a Madonna ; and her eyes must be ` passionless , peaceful blue , ' deep and tender as a twilight sky . ''
Freda , looking at herself along her arm in the mirror , recalled this description and smiled faintly .
She was short and plump , with a piquant , irregular little face , vivid tinting , curly , unmanageable hair of ruddy brown , and big grey eyes .
Certainly , she was not his ideal .
`` When and where did you meet your lady of the Madonna face and twilight eyes ? ''
she asked .
Roger frowned .
Freda's face was solemn enough but her eyes looked as if she might be laughing at him .
`` I haven't met her yet .
I have only seen her .
It was in the park yesterday .
She was in a carriage with the Mandersons .
So beautiful , Freda !
Our eyes met as she drove past and I realized that I had found my long-sought ideal .
I rushed back to town and hunted up Pete Manderson at the club .
Pete is a donkey but he has his ways of being useful .
He told me who she was .
Her name is Stephanie Gardiner ; she is his cousin from the south and is visiting his mother .
And , Freda , I am to dine at the Mandersons ' tonight .
I shall meet her . ''
`` Do goddesses and ideals and Madonnas eat ? ''
said Freda in an awed whisper .
Her eyes were certainly laughing now .
Roger got up stiffly .
`` I must confess I did not expect that you would ridicule my confidence , Freda , '' he said frigidly .
`` It is very unlike you .
But if you are not interested I will not bore you with any further details .
And it is time I was getting back to town anyhow . ''
When he had gone Freda ran to the west window and flung it open .
She leaned out and waved both hands at him over the spruce hedge .
`` Roger , Roger , I was a horrid little beast .
Forget it immediately , please .
And come out tomorrow and tell me all about her . ''
Roger came .
He bored Freda terribly with his raptures but she never betrayed it .
She was all sympathy -- or , at least , as much sympathy as a woman can be who must listen while the man of men sings another woman's praises to her .
She sent Roger away in perfect good humour with himself and all the world , then she curled herself up in the snuggery , pulled a rug over her head , and cried .
Roger came out to Lowlands oftener than ever after that .
He had to talk to somebody about Stephanie Gardiner and Freda was the safest vent .
The `` pursuit of the Ideal , '' as she called it , went on with vim and fervour .
Sometimes Roger would be on the heights of hope and elation ; the next visit he would be in the depths of despair and humility .
Freda had learned to tell which it was by the way he opened the snuggery door .
One day when Roger came he found six feet of young man reposing at ease in his particular chair .
Freda was sipping chocolate in her corner and looking over the rim of her cup at the intruder just as she had been wont to look at Roger .
She had on a new dark red gown and looked vivid and rose-hued .
She introduced the stranger as Mr. Grayson and called him Tim .
They seemed to be excellent friends .
Roger sat bolt upright on the edge of a fragile , gilded chair which Freda kept to hide a shabby spot in the carpet , and glared at Tim until the latter said goodbye and lounged out .
`` You'll be over tomorrow ? ''
said Freda .
`` Can't I come this evening ? ''
he pleaded .
Freda nodded .
`` Yes -- and we'll make taffy .
You used to make such delicious stuff , Tim . ''
`` Who is that fellow , Freda ? ''
Roger inquired crossly , as soon as the door closed .
Freda began to make a fresh pot of chocolate .
She smiled dreamily as if thinking of something pleasant .
`` Why , that was Tim Grayson -- dear old Tim .
He used to live next door to us when we were children .
And we were such chums -- always together , making mud pies , and getting into scrapes .
He is just the same old Tim , and is home from the west for a long visit .
I was so glad to see him again . ''
`` So it would appear , '' said Roger grumpily .
`` Well , now that ` dear old Tim ' is gone , I suppose I can have my own chair , can I ?
And do give me some chocolate .
I didn't know you made taffy . ''
`` Oh , I don't .
It's Tim .
He can do everything .
He used to make it long ago , and I washed up after him and helped him eat it .
How is the pursuit of the Ideal coming on , Roger-boy ? ''
Roger did not feel as if he wanted to talk about the Ideal .
He noticed how vivid Freda's smile was and how lovable were the curves of her neck where the dusky curls were caught up from it .
He had also an inner vision of Freda making taffy with Tim and he did not approve of it .
He refused to talk about the Ideal .
On his way back to town he found himself thinking that Freda had the most charming , glad little laugh of any girl he knew .
He suddenly remembered that he had never heard the Ideal laugh .
She smiled placidly -- he had raved to Freda about that smile -- but she did not laugh .
Roger began to wonder what an ideal without any sense of humour would be like when translated into the real .
He went to Lowlands the next afternoon and found Tim there -- in his chair again .
He detested the fellow but he could not deny that he was good-looking and had charming manners .
Freda was very nice to Tim .
On his way back to town Roger decided that Tim was in love with Freda .
He was furious at the idea .
The presumption of the man !
He also remembered that he had not said a word to Freda about the Ideal .
And he never did say much more -- perhaps because he could not get the chance .
Tim was always there before him and generally outstayed him .
One day when he went out he did not find Freda at home .
Her aunt told him that she was out riding with Mr. Grayson .
On his way back he met them .
As they cantered by , Freda waved her riding whip at him .
Her face was full of warm , ripe , kissable tints , her loose lovelocks were blowing about it , and her eyes shone like grey pools mirroring stars .
Roger turned and watched them out of sight behind the firs that cupped Lowlands .
That night at Mrs. Crandall's dinner table somebody began to talk about Freda .
Roger strained his ears to listen .
Mrs. Kitty Carr was speaking -- Mrs. Kitty knew everything and everybody .
`` She is simply the most charming girl in the world when you get really acquainted with her , '' said Mrs. Kitty , with the air of having discovered and patented Freda .
`` She is so vivid and unconventional and lovable -- ` spirit and fire and dew , ' you know .
Tim Grayson is a very lucky fellow . ''
`` Are they engaged ? ''
someone asked .
`` Not yet , I fancy .
But of course it is only a question of time .
Tim simply adores her .
He is a good soul and has lots of money , so he'll do .
But really , you know , I think a prince wouldn't be good enough for Freda . ''
Roger suddenly became conscious that the Ideal was asking him a question of which he had not heard a word .
He apologized and was forgiven .
But he went home a very miserable man .
He did not go to Lowlands for two weeks .
They were the longest , most wretched two weeks he had ever lived through .
One afternoon he heard that Tim Grayson had gone back west .
Mrs. Kitty told it mournfully .
`` Of course , this means that Freda has refused him , '' she said .
`` She is such an odd girl . ''
Roger went straight out to Lowlands .
He found Freda in the snuggery and held out his hands to her .
`` Freda , will you marry me ?
It will take a lifetime to tell you how much I love you . ''
`` But the Ideal ? ''
questioned Freda .
`` I have just discovered what my ideal is , '' said Roger .
`` She is a dear , loyal , companionable little girl , with the jolliest laugh and the warmest , truest heart in the world .
She has starry grey eyes , two dimples , and a mouth I must and will kiss -- there -- there -- there !
Freda , tell me you love me a little bit , although I've been such a besotted idiot . ''
`` I will not let you call my husband-that-is-to-be names , '' said Freda , snuggling down into the curve of his shoulder .
`` But indeed , Roger-boy , you will have to make me very , very happy to square matters up .
You have made me so unutterably unhappy for two months . ''
`` The pursuit of the Ideal is ended , '' declared Roger .
