IN a great forest , high up among the green boughs , lived Bird Brown-Breast , and his bright-eyed little mate .
They were now very happy ; their home was done , the four blue eggs lay in the soft nest , and the little wife sat still and patient on them , while the husband sang , and told her charming tales , and brought her sweet berries and little worms .
Things went smoothly on , till one day she found in the nest a little white egg , with a golden band about it .
`` My friend , '' cried she , `` come and see !
Where can this fine egg have come from ?
My four are here , and this also ; what think you of it ? ''
The husband shook his head gravely , and said , `` Be not alarmed , my love ; it is doubtless some good Fairy who has given us this , and we shall find some gift within ; do not let us touch it , but do you sit carefully upon it , and we shall see in time what has been sent us . ''
So they said nothing about it , and soon their home had four little chirping children ; and then the white egg opened , and , behold , a little maiden lay singing within .
Then how amazed were they , and how they welcomed her , as she lay warm beneath the mother's wing , and how the young birds did love her .
Great joy was in the forest , and proud were the parents of their family , and still more of the little one who had come to them ; while all the neighbors flocked in , to see Dame Brown-Breast's little child .
And the tiny maiden talked to them , and sang so merrily , that they could have listened for ever .
Soon she was the joy of the whole forest , dancing from tree to tree , making every nest her home , and none were ever so welcome as little Bud ; and so they lived right merrily in the green old forest .
The father now had much to do to supply his family with food , and choice morsels did he bring little Bud .
The wild fruits were her food , the fresh dew in the flower-cups her drink , while the green leaves served her for little robes ; and thus she found garments in the flowers of the field , and a happy home with Mother Brown-Breast ; and all in the wood , from the stately trees to the little mosses in the turf , were friends to the merry child .
And each day she taught the young birds sweet songs , and as their gay music rang through the old forest , the stern , dark pines ceased their solemn waving , that they might hear the soft sounds stealing through the dim wood-paths , and mortal children came to listen , saying softly , `` Hear the flowers sing , and touch them not , for the Fairies are here . ''
Then came a band of sad little Elves to Bud , praying that they might hear the sweet music ; and when she took them by the hand , and spoke gently to them , they wept and said sadly , when she asked them whence they came , -- `` We dwelt once in Fairy-Land , and O how happy were we then !
But alas !
we were not worthy of so fair a home , and were sent forth into the cold world .
Look at our robes , they are like the withered leaves ; our wings are dim , our crowns are gone , and we lead sad , lonely lives in this dark forest .
Let us stay with you ; your gay music sounds like Fairy songs , and you have such a friendly way with you , and speak so gently to us .
It is good to be near one so lovely and so kind ; and you can tell us how we may again become fair and innocent .
Say we may stay with you , kind little maiden . ''
And Bud said , `` Yes , '' and they stayed ; but her kind little heart was grieved that they wept so sadly , and all she could say could not make them happy ; till at last she said , -- `` Do not weep , and I will go to Queen Dew-Drop , and beseech her to let you come back .
I will tell her that you are repentant , and will do anything to gain her love again ; that you are sad , and long to be forgiven .
This will I say , and more , and trust she will grant my prayer . ''
`` She will not say no to you , dear Bud , '' said the poor little Fairies ; `` she will love you as we do , and if we can but come again to our lost home , we can not give you thanks enough .
Go , Bud , and if there be power in Fairy gifts , you shall be as happy as our hearts ' best love can make you . ''
The tidings of Bud's departure flew through the forest , and all her friends came to say farewell , as with the morning sun she would go ; and each brought some little gift , for the land of Fairies was far away , and she must journey long .
`` Nay , you shall not go on your feet , my child , '' said Mother Brown-Breast ; `` your friend Golden-Wing shall carry you .
Call him hither , that I may seat you rightly , for if you should fall off my heart would break . ''
Then up came Golden-Wing , and Bud was safely seated on the cushion of violet-leaves ; and it was really charming to see her merry little face , peeping from under the broad brim of her cow-slip hat , as her butterfly steed stood waving his bright wings in the sunlight .
Then came the bee with his yellow honey-bags , which he begged she would take , and the little brown spider that lived under the great leaves brought a veil for her hat , and besought her to wear it , lest the sun should shine too brightly ; while the ant came bringing a tiny strawberry , lest she should miss her favorite fruit .
The mother gave her good advice , and the papa stood with his head on one side , and his round eyes twinkling with delight , to think that his little Bud was going to Fairy-Land .
Then they all sang gayly together , till she passed out of sight over the hills , and they saw her no more .
And now Bud left the old forest far behind her .
Golden-Wing bore her swiftly along , and she looked down on the green mountains , and the peasant's cottages , that stood among overshadowing trees ; and the earth looked bright , with its broad , blue rivers winding through soft meadows , the singing birds , and flowers , who kept their bright eyes ever on the sky .
And she sang gayly as they floated in the clear air , while her friend kept time with his waving wings , and ever as they went along all grew fairer ; and thus they came to Fairy-Land .
As Bud passed through the gates , she no longer wondered that the exiled Fairies wept and sorrowed for the lovely home they had lost .
Bright clouds floated in the sunny sky , casting a rainbow light on the Fairy palaces below , where the Elves were dancing ; while the low , sweet voices of the singing flowers sounded softly through the fragrant air , and mingled with the music of the rippling waves , as they flowed on beneath the blossoming vines that drooped above them .
All was bright and beautiful ; but kind little Bud would not linger , for the forms of the weeping Fairies were before her ; and though the blossoms nodded gayly on their stems to welcome her , and the soft winds kissed her cheek , she would not stay , but on to the Flower Palace she went , into a pleasant hall whose walls were formed of crimson roses , amid whose leaves sat little Elves , making sweet music on their harps .
When they saw Bud , they gathered round her , and led her through the flower-wreathed arches to a group of the most beautiful Fairies , who were gathered about a stately lily , in whose fragrant cup sat one whose purple robe and glittering crown told she was their Queen .
Bud knelt before her , and , while tears streamed down her little face , she told her errand , and pleaded earnestly that the exiled Fairies might be forgiven , and not be left to pine far from their friends and kindred .
And as she prayed , many wept with her ; and when she ceased , and waited for her answer , many knelt beside her , praying forgiveness for the unhappy Elves .
With tearful eyes , Queen Dew-Drop replied , -- `` Little maiden , your prayer has softened my heart .
They shall not be left sorrowing and alone , nor shall you go back without a kindly word to cheer and comfort them .
We will pardon their fault , and when they can bring hither a perfect Fairy crown , robe , and wand , they shall be again received as children of their loving Queen .
The task is hard , for none but the best and purest can form the Fairy garments ; yet with patience they may yet restore their robes to their former brightness .
Farewell , good little maiden ; come with them , for but for you they would have dwelt for ever without the walls of Fairy-Land . ''
`` Good speed to you , and farewell , '' cried they all , as , with loving messages to their poor friends , they bore her to the gates .
Day after day toiled little Bud , cheering the Fairies , who , angry and disappointed , would not listen to her gentle words , but turned away and sat alone weeping .
They grieved her kind heart with many cruel words ; but patiently she bore with them , and when they told her they could never perform so hard a task , and must dwell for ever in the dark forest , she answered gently , that the snow-white lily must be planted , and watered with repentant tears , before the robe of innocence could be won ; that the sun of love must shine in their hearts , before the light could return to their dim crowns , and deeds of kindness must be performed , ere the power would come again to their now useless wands .
Then they planted the lilies ; but they soon drooped and died , and no light came to their crowns .
They did no gentle deeds , but cared only for themselves ; and when they found their labor was in vain , they tried no longer , but sat weeping .
Bud , with ceaseless toil and patient care , tended the lilies , which bloomed brightly , the crowns grew bright , and in her hands the wands had power over birds and blossoms , for she was striving to give happiness to others , forgetful of herself .
And the idle Fairies , with thankful words , took the garments from her , and then with Bud went forth to Fairy-Land , and stood with beating hearts before the gates ; where crowds of Fairy friends came forth to welcome them .
But when Queen Dew-Drop touched them with her wand , as they passed in , the light faded from their crowns , their robes became like withered leaves , and their wands were powerless .
Amid the tears of all the Fairies , the Queen led them to the gates , and said , -- `` Farewell !
It is not in my power to aid you ; innocence and love are not within your hearts , and were it not for this untiring little maiden , who has toiled while you have wept , you never would have entered your lost home .
Go and strive again , for till all is once more fair and pure , I can not call you mine . ''
`` Farewell ! ''
sang the weeping Fairies , as the gates closed on their outcast friends ; who , humbled and broken-hearted , gathered around Bud ; and she , with cheering words , guided them back to the forest .
Time passed on , and the Fairies had done nothing to gain their lovely home again .
They wept no longer , but watched little Bud , as she daily tended the flowers , restoring their strength and beauty , or with gentle words flew from nest to nest , teaching the little birds to live happily together ; and wherever she went blessings fell , and loving hearts were filled with gratitude .
Then , one by one , the Elves secretly did some little work of kindness , and found a quiet joy come back to repay them .
Flowers looked lovingly up as they passed , birds sang to cheer them when sad thoughts made them weep .
And soon little Bud found out their gentle deeds , and her friendly words gave them new strength .
So day after day they followed her , and like a band of guardian spirits they flew far and wide , carrying with them joy and peace .
And not only birds and flowers blessed them , but human beings also ; for with tender hands they guided little children from danger , and kept their young hearts free from evil thoughts ; they whispered soothing words to the sick , and brought sweet odors and fair flowers to their lonely rooms .
They sent lovely visions to the old and blind , to make their hearts young and bright with happy thoughts .
But most tenderly did they watch over the poor and sorrowing , and many a poor mother blessed the unseen hands that laid food before her hungry little ones , and folded warm garments round their naked limbs .
Many a poor man wondered at the fair flowers that sprang up in his little garden-plot , cheering him with their bright forms , and making his dreary home fair with their loveliness , and looked at his once barren field , where now waved the golden corn , turning its broad leaves to the warm sun , and promising a store of golden ears to give him food ; while the care-worn face grew bright , and the troubled heart filled with gratitude towards the invisible spirits who had brought him such joy .
Thus time passed on , and though the exiled Fairies longed often for their home , still , knowing they did not deserve it , they toiled on , hoping one day to see the friends they had lost ; while the joy of their own hearts made their life full of happiness .
One day came little Bud to them , saying , -- `` Listen , dear friends .
I have a hard task to offer you .
It is a great sacrifice for you light loving Fairies to dwell through the long winter in the dark , cold earth , watching over the flower roots , to keep them free from the little grubs and worms that seek to harm them .
But in the sunny Spring when they bloom again , their love and gratitude will give you happy homes among their bright leaves .
`` It is a wearisome task , and I can give you no reward for all your tender care , but the blessings of the gentle flowers you will have saved from death .
Gladly would I aid you ; but my winged friends are preparing for their journey to warmer lands , and I must help them teach their little ones to fly , and see them safely on their way .
Then , through the winter , must I seek the dwellings of the poor and suffering , comfort the sick and lonely , and give hope and courage to those who in their poverty are led astray .
These things must I do ; but when the flowers bloom again I will be with you , to welcome back our friends from over the sea . ''
Then , with tears , the Fairies answered , `` Ah , good little Bud , you have taken the hardest task yourself , and who will repay you for all your deeds of tenderness and mercy in the great world ?
Should evil befall you , our hearts would break .
We will labor trustingly in the earth , and thoughts of you shall cheer us on ; for without you we had been worthless beings , and never known the joy that kindly actions bring .
Yes , dear Bud , we will gladly toil among the roots , that the fair flowers may wear their gayest robes to welcome you . ''
Then deep in the earth the Fairies dwelt , and no frost or snow could harm the blossoms they tended .
Every little seed was laid in the soft earth , watered , and watched .
Tender roots were folded in withered leaves , that no chilling drops might reach them ; and safely dreamed the flowers , till summer winds should call them forth ; while lighter grew each Fairy heart , as every gentle deed was tenderly performed .
At length the snow was gone , and they heard little voices calling them to come up ; but patiently they worked , till seed and root were green and strong .
Then , with eager feet , they hastened to the earth above , where , over hill and valley , bright flowers and budding trees smiled in the warm sunlight , blossoms bent lovingly before them , and rang their colored bells , till the fragrant air was full of music ; while the stately trees waved their great arms above them , and scattered soft leaves at their feet .
Then came the merry birds , making the wood alive with their gay voices , calling to one another , as they flew among the vines , building their little homes .
Long waited the Elves , and at last she came with Father Brown-Breast .
Happy days passed ; and summer flowers were in their fullest beauty , when Bud bade the Fairies come with her .
Mounted on bright-winged butterflies , they flew over forest and meadow , till with joyful eyes they saw the flower-crowned walls of Fairy-Land .
Before the gates they stood , and soon troops of loving Elves came forth to meet them .
And on through the sunny gardens they went , into the Lily Hall , where , among the golden stamens of a graceful flower , sat the Queen ; while on the broad , green leaves around it stood the brighteyed little maids of honor .
Then , amid the deep silence , little Bud , leading the Fairies to the throne , said , -- `` Dear Queen , I here bring back your subjects , wiser for their sorrow , better for their hard trial ; and now might any Queen be proud of them , and bow to learn from them that giving joy and peace to others brings it fourfold to us , bearing a double happiness in the blessings to those we help .
Through the dreary months , when they might have dwelt among fair Southern flowers , beneath a smiling sky , they toiled in the dark and silent earth , filling the hearts of the gentle Flower Spirits with grateful love , seeking no reward but the knowledge of their own good deeds , and the joy they always bring .
This they have done unmurmuringly and alone ; and now , far and wide , flower blessings fall upon them , and the summer winds bear the glad tidings unto those who droop in sorrow , and new joy and strength it brings , as they look longingly for the friends whose gentle care hath brought such happiness to their fair kindred .
`` Are they not worthy of your love , dear Queen ?
Have they not won their lovely home ?
Say they are pardoned , and you have gained the love of hearts pure as the snow-white robes now folded over them . ''
As Bud ceased , she touched the wondering Fairies with her wand , and the dark faded garments fell away ; and beneath , the robes of lily-leaves glittered pure and spotless in the sun-light .
Then , while happy tears fell , Queen Dew-Drop placed the bright crowns on the bowed heads of the kneeling Fairies , and laid before them the wands their own good deeds had rendered powerful .
They turned to thank little Bud for all her patient love , but she was gone ; and high above , in the clear air , they saw the little form journeying back to the quiet forest .
She needed no reward but the joy she had given .
The Fairy hearts were pure again , and her work was done ; yet all Fairy-Land had learned a lesson from gentle little Bud .
`` Now , little Sunbeam , what have you to tell us ? ''
said the Queen , looking down on a bright-eyed Elf , who sat half hidden in the deep moss at her feet .
`` I too , like Star-Twinkle , have nothing but a song to offer , '' replied the Fairy ; and then , while the nightingale's sweet voice mingled with her own , she sang .
