One summer I was attacked by the craze for amateur photography .
It became chronic afterwards , and I and my camera have never since been parted .
We have had some odd adventures together , and one of the most novel of our experiences was that in which we played the part of chief witness against Ned Brooke .
I may say that my name is Amy Clarke , and that I believe I am considered the best amateur photographer in our part of the country .
That is all I need tell you about myself .
Mr. Carroll had asked me to photograph his place for him when the apple orchards were in bloom .
He has a picturesque old-fashioned country house behind a lawn of the most delightful old trees and flanked on each side by the orchards .
So I went one June afternoon , with all my accoutrements , prepared to `` take '' the Carroll establishment in my best style .
Mr. Carroll was away but was expected home soon , so we waited for him , as all the family wished to be photographed under the big maple at the front door .
I prowled around among the shrubbery at the lower end of the lawn and , after a great deal of squinting from various angles , I at last fixed upon the spot from which I thought the best view of the house might be obtained .
Then Gertie and Lilian Carroll and I got into the hammocks and swung at our leisure , enjoying the cool breeze sweeping through the maples .
Ned Brooke was hanging around as usual , watching us furtively .
Ned was one of the hopeful members of a family that lived in a tumble-down shanty just across the road from the Carrolls .
They were wretchedly poor , and old Brooke , as he was called , and Ned were employed a good deal by Mr. Carroll -- more out of charity than anything else , I fancy .
The Brookes had a rather shady reputation .
They were notoriously lazy , and it was suspected that their line of distinction between their own and their neighbours ' goods was not very clearly drawn .
Many people censured Mr. Carroll for encouraging them at all , but he was too kind-hearted to let them suffer actual want and , as a consequence , one or the other of them was always dodging about his place .
Ned was a lank , tow-headed youth of about fourteen , with shifty , twinkling eyes that could never look you straight in the face .
His appearance was anything but prepossessing , and I always felt , when I looked at him , that if anyone wanted to do a piece of shady work by proxy , Ned Brooke would be the very lad for the business .
Mr. Carroll came at last , and we all went down to meet him at the gate .
Ned Brooke also came shuffling along to take the horse , and Mr. Carroll tossed the reins to him and at the same time handed a pocketbook to his wife .
`` Just as well to be careful where you put that , '' he said laughingly .
`` There's a sum in it not to be picked up on every gooseberry bush .
Gilman Harris paid me this morning for that bit of woodland I sold him last fall -- five hundred dollars .
I promised that you and the girls should have it to get a new piano , so there it is for you . ''
`` Thank you , '' said Mrs. Carroll delightedly .
`` However , you 'd better put it back in your pocket till we go in .
Amy is in a hurry . ''
Mr. Carroll took back the pocketbook and dropped it carelessly into the inside pocket of the light overcoat that he wore .
I happened to glance at Ned Brooke just then , and I could not help noticing the sudden crafty , eager expression that flashed over his face .
He eyed the pocketbook in Mr. Carroll's hands furtively , after which he went off with the horse in a great hurry .
The girls were exclaiming and thanking their father , and nobody noticed Ned Brooke's behaviour but myself , and it soon passed out of my mind .
`` Come to take the place , are you , Amy ? ''
said Mr. Carroll .
`` Well , everything is ready , I think .
I suppose we 'd better proceed .
Where shall we stand ?
You had better group us as you think best . ''
Whereupon I proceeded to arrange them in due order under the maple .
Mrs. Carroll sat in a chair , while her husband stood behind her .
Gertie stood on the steps with a basket of flowers in her hand , and Lilian was at one side .
The two little boys , Teddy and Jack , climbed up into the maple , and little Dora , the dimpled six-year-old , stood gravely in the foreground with an enormous grey cat hugged in her chubby arms .
It was a pretty group in a pretty setting , and I thrilled with professional pride as I stepped back for a final , knowing squint at it all .
Then I went to my camera , slipped in the plate , gave them due warning and took off the cap .
I took two plates to make sure and then the thing was over , but as I had another plate left I thought I might as well take a view of the house by itself , so I carried my camera to a new place and had just got everything ready to lift the cap when Mr. Carroll came down and said : `` If you girls want to see something pretty , come to the back field with me .
That will wait till you come back , won't it , Amy ? ''
So we all betook ourselves to the back field , a short distance away , where Mr. Carroll proudly displayed two of the prettiest little Jersey cows I had ever seen .
We returned to the house by way of the back lane and , as we came in sight of the main road , my brother Cecil drove up and said that if I were ready , I had better go home with him and save myself a hot , dusty walk .
The Carrolls all went down to the fence to speak to Cecil , but I dashed hurriedly down through the orchard , leaped over the fence into the lawn and ran to the somewhat remote corner where I had left my camera .
I was in a desperate hurry , for I knew Cecil's horse did not like to be kept waiting , so I never even glanced at the house , but snatched off the cap , counted two and replaced it .
Then I took out my plate , put it in the holder and gathered up my traps .
I suppose I was about five minutes at it all and I had my back to the house the whole time , and when I laid all my things ready and emerged from my retreat , there was nobody to be seen about the place .
As I hurried up through the lawn , I noticed Ned Brooke walking at a smart pace down the lane , but the fact did not make any particular impression on me at the time , and was not recalled until afterwards .
Cecil was waiting for me , so I got in the buggy and we drove off .
On arriving home I shut myself up in my dark room and proceeded to develop the first two negatives of the Carroll housestead .
They were both excellent , the first one being a trifle the better , so that I decided to finish from it .
I intended also to develop the third , but just as I finished the others , a half-dozen city cousins swooped down upon us and I had to put away my paraphernalia , emerge from my dark retreat and fly around to entertain them .
The next day Cecil came in and said : `` Did you hear , Amy , that Mr. Carroll has lost a pocketbook with five hundred dollars in it ? ''
`` No ! ''
I exclaimed .
`` How ?
When ?
Where ? ''
`` Don't overwhelm a fellow .
I can answer only one question -- last night .
As to the ` how , ' they don't know , and as to the ` where ' -- well , if they knew that , there might be some hope of finding it .
The girls are in a bad way .
The money was to get them their longed-for piano , it seems , and now it's gone . ''
`` But how did it happen , Cecil ? ''
`` Well , Mr. Carroll says that Mrs. Carroll handed the pocketbook back to him at the gate yesterday , and he dropped it in the inside pocket of his over-coat -- '' `` I saw him do it , '' I cried .
`` Yes , and then , before he went to be photographed , he hung his coat up in the hall .
It hung there until the evening , and nobody seems to have thought about the money , each supposing that someone else had put it carefully away .
After tea Mr. Carroll put on the coat and went to see somebody over at Netherby .
He says the thought of the pocketbook never crossed his mind ; he had forgotten all about putting it in that coat pocket .
He came home across the fields about eleven o'clock and found that the cows had broken into the clover hay , and he had a great chase before he got them out .
When he went in , just as he entered the door , the remembrance of the money flashed over him .
He felt in his pocket , but there was no pocketbook there ; he asked his wife if she had taken it out .
She had not , and nobody else had .
There was a hole in the pocket , but Mr. Carroll says it was too small for the pocketbook to have worked through .
However , it must have done so -- unless someone took it out of his pocket at Netherby , and that is not possible , because he never had his coat off , and it was in an inside pocket .
It's not likely that they will ever see it again .
Someone may pick it up , of course , but the chances are slim .
Mr. Carroll doesn't know his exact path across the fields , and if he lost it while he was after the cows , it's a bluer show still .
They've been searching all day , of course .
The girls are awfully disappointed . ''
A sudden recollection came to me of Ned Brooke's face as I had seen it the day before at the gate , coupled with the remembrance of seeing him walking down the lane at a quick pace , so unlike his usual shambling gait , while I ran through the lawn .
`` How do they know it was lost ? ''
I said .
`` Perhaps it was stolen before Mr. Carroll went to Netherby . ''
`` They think not , '' said Cecil .
`` Who would have stolen it ? ''
`` Ned Brooke .
I saw him hanging around .
And you never saw such a look as came over his face when he heard Mr. Carroll say there was five hundred dollars in that pocketbook . ''
`` Well , I did suggest to them that Ned might know something about it , for I remembered having seen him go down the lane while I was waiting for you , but they won't hear of such a thing .
The Brookes are kind of protégés of theirs , you know , and they won't believe anything bad of them .
If Ned did take it , however , there's not a shadow of evidence against him . ''
`` No , I suppose not , '' I answered thoughtfully , `` but the more I think it over , the more I 'm convinced that he took it .
You know , we all went to the back field to look at the Jerseys , and all that time the coat was hanging there in the hall , and not a soul in the house .
And it was just after we came back that I saw Ned scuttling down the lane so fast . ''
I mentioned my suspicions to the Carrolls a few days afterwards , when I went down with the photographs , and found that they had discovered no trace of the lost pocketbook .
But they seemed positively angry when I hinted that Ned Brooke might know more about its whereabouts than anyone else .
They declared that they would as soon think of suspecting one of themselves as Ned , and altogether they seemed so offended at my suggestion that I held my peace and didn't irritate them by any more suppositions .
Afterwards , in the excitement of our cousins ' visit , the matter passed out of my mind completely .
They stayed two weeks , and I was so busy the whole time that I never got a chance to develop that third plate and , in fact , I had forgotten all about it .
One morning soon after they went away , I remembered the plate and decided to go and develop it .
Cecil went with me , and we shut ourselves up in our den , lit our ruby lantern and began operations .
I did not expect much of the plate , because it had been exposed and handled carelessly , and I thought that it might prove to be underexposed or light-struck .
So I left Cecil to develop it while I prepared the fixing bath .
Cecil was whistling away when suddenly he gave a tremendous `` whew '' of astonishment and sprang to his feet .
`` Amy , Amy , look here ! ''
he cried .
I rushed to his side and looked at the plate as he held it up in the rosy light .
It was a splendid one , and the Carroll house came out clear , with the front door and the steps in full view .
And there , just in the act of stepping from the threshold , was the figure of a boy with an old straw hat on his head and -- in his hand -- the pocketbook !
He was standing with his head turned towards the corner of the house as if listening , with one hand holding his ragged coat open and the other poised in mid-air with the pocketbook , as if he were just going to put it in his inside pocket .
The whole scene was as clear as noonday , and nobody with eyes in his head could have failed to recognize Ned Brooke .
`` Goodness ! ''
I gasped .
`` In with it -- quick ! ''
And we doused the thing into the fixing bath and then sat down breathlessly and looked at each other .
`` I say , Amy , '' said Cecil , `` what a sell this will be on the Carrolls !
Ned Brooke couldn't do such a thing -- oh , no !
The poor injured boy at whom everyone has such an unlawful pick !
I wonder if this will convince them . ''
`` Do you think they can get it all back ? ''
I asked .
`` It's not likely he would have dared to use any of it yet . ''
`` I don't know .
We'll have a try , anyhow .
How long before this plate will be dry enough to carry down to the Carrolls as circumstantial evidence ? ''
`` Three hours or thereabouts , '' I answered , `` but perhaps sooner .
I'll take two prints off when it is ready .
I wonder what the Carrolls will say . ''
`` It's a piece of pure luck that the plate should have turned out so well after the slap-dash way in which it was taken and used .
I say , Amy , isn't this quite an adventure ? ''
At last the plate was dry , and I printed two proofs .
We wrapped them up carefully and marched down to Mr. Carroll's .
You never saw people so overcome with astonishment as the Carrolls were when Cecil , with the air of a statesman unfolding the evidence of some dreadful conspiracy against the peace and welfare of the nation , produced the plate and the proofs , and held them out before them .
Mr. Carroll and Cecil took the proofs and went over to the Brooke shanty .
They found only Ned and his mother at home .
At first Ned , when taxed with his guilt , denied it , but when Mr. Carroll confronted him with the proofs , he broke down in a spasm of terror and confessed all .
His mother produced the pocketbook and the money -- they had not dared to spend a single cent of it -- and Mr. Carroll went home in triumph .
Perhaps Ned Brooke ought not to have been let off so easily as he was , but his mother cried and pleaded , and Mr. Carroll was too kind-hearted to resist .
So he did not punish them at all , save by utterly discarding the whole family and their concerns .
The place got too hot for them after the story came out , and in less than a month all moved away -- much to the benefit of Mapleton .
