`` Who was the man I saw talking to you in the hayfield ? ''
asked Aunt Kate , as Uncle Richard came to dinner .
`` Bob Marks , '' said Uncle Richard briefly .
`` I've sold Laddie to him . ''
Ernest Hughes , the twelve-year-old orphan boy whom Uncle `` boarded and kept '' for the chores he did , suddenly stopped eating .
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson , you 're not going to sell Laddie ? ''
he cried chokily .
Uncle Richard stared at him .
Never before , in the five years that Ernest had lived with him , had the quiet little fellow spoken without being spoken to , much less ventured to protest against anything Uncle Richard might do .
`` Certainly I am , '' answered the latter curtly .
`` Bob offered me twenty dollars for the dog , and he's coming after him next week . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson , '' said Ernest , rising to his feet , his small , freckled face crimson .
`` Oh , don't sell Laddie !
Please , Mr. Lawson , don't sell him ! ''
`` What nonsense is this ? ''
said Uncle Richard sharply .
He was a man who brooked no opposition from anybody , and who never changed his mind when it was once made up .
`` Don't sell Laddie ! ''
pleaded Ernest miserably .
`` He is the only friend I've got .
I can't live if Laddie goes away .
Oh , don't sell him , Mr. Lawson ! ''
`` Sit down and hold your tongue , '' said Uncle Richard sternly .
`` The dog is mine , and I shall do with him as I think fit .
He is sold , and that is all there is about it .
Go on with your dinner . ''
But Ernest for the first time did not obey .
He snatched his cap from the back of his chair , dashed it down over his eyes , and ran from the kitchen with a sob choking his breath .
Uncle Richard looked angry , but Aunt Kate hastened to soothe him .
`` Don't be vexed with the boy , Richard , '' she said .
`` You know he is very fond of Laddie .
He's had to do with him ever since he was a pup , and no doubt he feels badly at the thought of losing him .
I 'm rather sorry myself that you have sold the dog . ''
`` Well , he is sold and there's an end of it .
I don't say but that the dog is a good dog .
But he is of no use to us , and twenty dollars will come in mighty handy just now .
He's worth that to Bob , for he is a good watch dog , so we've both made a fair bargain . ''
Nothing more was said about Ernest or Laddie .
I had taken no part in the discussion , for I felt no great interest in the matter .
Laddie was a nice dog ; Ernest was a quiet , inoffensive little fellow , five years younger than myself ; that was all I thought about either of them .
I was spending my vacation at Uncle Richard's farm on the Nova Scotian Bay of Fundy shore .
I was a great favourite with Uncle Richard , partly because he had been much attached to my mother , his only sister , partly because of my strong resemblance to his only son , who had died several years before .
Uncle Richard was a stern , undemonstrative man , but I knew that he entertained a deep and real affection for me , and I always enjoyed my vacation sojourns at his place .
`` What are you going to do this afternoon , Ned ? ''
he asked , after the disturbance caused by Ernest's outbreak had quieted down .
`` I think I'll row out to Island Rock , '' I replied .
`` I want to take some views of the shore from it . ''
Uncle Richard nodded .
He was much interested in my new camera .
`` If you 're on it about four o'clock , you'll get a fine view of the ` Hole in the Wall ' when the sun begins to shine on the water through it , '' he said .
`` I've often thought it would make a handsome picture . ''
`` After I've finished taking the pictures , I think I'll go down shore to Uncle Adam's and stay all night , '' I said .
`` Jim's dark room is more convenient than mine , and he has some pictures he is going to develop tonight , too . ''
I started for the shore about two o'clock .
Ernest was sitting on the woodpile as I passed through the yard , with his arms about Laddie's neck and his face buried in Laddie's curly hair .
Laddie was a handsome and intelligent black-and-white Newfoundland , with a magnificent coat .
He and Ernest were great chums .
I felt sorry for the boy who was to lose his pet .
`` Don't take it so hard , Ern , '' I said , trying to comfort him .
`` Uncle will likely get another pup . ''
`` I don't want any other pup ! ''
Ernest blurted out .
`` Oh , Ned , won't you try and coax your uncle not to sell him ?
Perhaps he 'd listen to you . ''
I shook my head .
I knew Uncle Richard too well to hope that .
`` Not in this case , Ern , '' I said .
`` He would say it did not concern me , and you know nothing moves him when he determines on a thing .
You'll have to reconcile yourself to losing Laddie , I 'm afraid . ''
Ernest's tow-coloured head went down on Laddie's neck again , and I , deciding that there was no use in saying anything more , proceeded towards the shore , which was about a mile from Uncle Richard's house .
The beach along his farm and for several farms along shore was a lonely , untenanted one , for the fisher-folk all lived two miles further down , at Rowley's Cove .
About three hundred yards from the shore was the peculiar formation known as Island Rock .
This was a large rock that stood abruptly up out of the water .
Below , about the usual water-line , it was seamed and fissured , but its summit rose up in a narrow , flat-topped peak .
At low tide twenty feet of it was above water , but at high tide it was six feet and often more under water .
I pushed Uncle Richard's small flat down the rough path and rowed out to Island Rock .
Arriving there , I thrust the painter deep into a narrow cleft .
This was the usual way of mooring it , and no doubt of its safety occurred to me .
I scrambled up the rock and around to the eastern end , where there was a broader space for standing and from which some capital views could be obtained .
The sea about the rock was calm , but there was quite a swell on and an off-shore breeze was blowing .
There were no boats visible .
The tide was low , leaving bare the curious caves and headlands along shore , and I secured a number of excellent snapshots .
It was now three o'clock .
I must wait another hour yet before I could get the best view of the `` Hole in the Wall '' -- a huge , arch-like opening through a jutting headland to the west of me .
I went around to look at it , when I saw a sight that made me stop short in dismay .
This was nothing less than the flat , drifting outward around the point .
The swell and suction of the water around the rock must have pulled her loose -- and I was a prisoner !
At first my only feeling was one of annoyance .
Then a thought flashed into my mind that made me dizzy with fear .
The tide would be high that night .
If I could not escape from Island Rock I would inevitably be drowned .
I sat down limply on a ledge and tried to look matters fairly in the face .
I could not swim ; calls for help could not reach anybody ; my only hope lay in the chance of somebody passing down the shore or of some boat appearing .
I looked at my watch .
It was a quarter past three .
The tide would begin to turn about five , but it would be at least ten before the rock would be covered .
I had , then , little more than six hours to live unless rescued .
The flat was by this time out of sight around the point .
I hoped that the sight of an empty flat drifting down shore might attract someone's attention and lead to investigation .
That seemed to be my only hope .
No alarm would be felt at Uncle Richard's because of my non-appearance .
They would suppose I had gone to Uncle Adam's .
I have heard of time seeming long to a person in my predicament , but to me it seemed fairly to fly , for every moment decreased my chance of rescue .
I determined I would not give way to cowardly fear , so , with a murmured prayer for help , I set myself to the task of waiting for death as bravely as possible .
At intervals I shouted as loudly as I could and , when the sun came to the proper angle for the best view of the `` Hole in the Wall , '' I took the picture .
It afterwards turned out to be a great success , but I have never been able to look at it without a shudder .
At five the tide began to come in .
Very , very slowly the water rose around Island Rock .
Up , up , up it came , while I watched it with fascinated eyes , feeling like a rat in a trap .
The sun fell lower and lower ; at eight o'clock the moon rose large and bright ; at nine it was a lovely night , dear , calm , bright as day , and the water was swishing over the highest ledge of the rock .
With some difficulty I climbed to the top and sat there to await the end .
I had no longer any hope of rescue but , by a great effort , I preserved self-control .
If I had to die , I would at least face death staunchly .
But when I thought of my mother at home , it tasked all my energies to keep from breaking down utterly .
Suddenly I heard a whistle .
Never was sound so sweet .
I stood up and peered eagerly shoreward .
Coming around the `` Hole in the Wall '' headland , on top of the cliffs , I saw a boy and a dog .
I sent a wild halloo ringing shoreward .
The boy started , stopped and looked out towards Island Rock .
The next moment he hailed me .
It was Ernest's voice , and it was Laddie who was barking beside him .
`` Ernest , '' I shouted wildly , `` run for help -- quick !
quick !
The tide will be over the rock in half an hour !
Hurry , or you will be too late ! ''
Instead of starting off at full speed , as I expected him to do , Ernest stood still for a moment , and then began to pick his steps down a narrow path over the cliff , followed by Laddie .
`` Ernest , '' I shouted frantically , `` what are you doing ?
Why don't you go for help ? ''
Ernest had by this time reached a narrow ledge of rock just above the water-line .
I noticed that he was carrying something over his arm .
`` It would take too long , '' he shouted .
`` By the time I got to the Cove and a boat could row back here , you 'd be drowned .
Laddie and I will save you .
Is there anything there you can tie a rope to ?
I've a coil of rope here that I think will be long enough to reach you .
I've been down to the Cove and Alec Martin sent it up to your uncle . ''
I looked about me ; a smooth , round hole had been worn clean through a thin part of the apex of the rock .
`` I could fasten the rope if I had it ! ''
I called .
`` But how can you get it to me ? ''
For answer Ernest tied a bit of driftwood to the rope and put it into Laddie's mouth .
The next minute the dog was swimming out to me .
As soon as he came close I caught the rope .
It was just long enough to stretch from shore to rock , allowing for a couple of hitches which Ernest gave around a small boulder on the ledge .
I tied my camera case on my head by means of some string I found in my pocket , then I slipped into the water and , holding to the rope , went hand over hand to the shore with Laddie swimming beside me .
Ernest held on to the shoreward end of the rope like grim death , a task that was no light one for his small arms .
When I finally scrambled up beside him , his face was dripping with perspiration and he trembled like a leaf .
`` Ern , you are a brick ! ''
I exclaimed .
`` You've saved my life ! ''
`` No , it was Laddie , '' said Ernest , refusing to take any credit at all .
We hurried home and arrived at Uncle Richard's about ten , just as they were going to bed .
When Uncle Richard heard what had happened , he turned very pale , and murmured , `` Thank God ! ''
Aunt Kate got me out of my wet clothes as quickly as possible , put me away to bed in hot blankets and dosed me with ginger tea .
I slept like a top and felt none the worse for my experience the next morning .
At the breakfast table Uncle Richard scarcely spoke .
But , just as we finished , he said abruptly to Ernest , `` I 'm not going to sell Laddie .
You and the dog saved Ned's life between you , and no dog who helped do that is ever going to be sold by me .
Henceforth he belongs to you .
I give him to you for your very own . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson ! ''
said Ernest , with shining eyes .
I never saw a boy look so happy .
As for Laddie , who was sitting beside him with his shaggy head on Ernest's knee , I really believe the dog understood , too .
The look in his eyes was almost human .
Uncle Richard leaned over and patted him .
`` Good dog ! ''
he said .
`` Good dog ! ''
