Just because I am an old woman outwardly it doesn't follow that I am one inwardly .
Hearts don't grow old -- or shouldn't .
Mine hasn't , I am thankful to say .
It bounded like a girl's with delight when I saw Doctor John and Marcella Barry drive past this afternoon .
If the doctor had been my own son I couldn't have felt more real pleasure in his happiness .
I 'm only an old lady who can do little but sit by her window and knit , but eyes were made for seeing , and I use mine for that purpose .
When I see the good and beautiful things -- and a body need never look for the other kind , you know -- the things God planned from the beginning and brought about in spite of the counter plans and schemes of men , I feel such a deep joy that I 'm glad , even at seventy-five , to be alive in a world where such things come to pass .
And if ever God meant and made two people for each other , those people were Doctor John and Marcella Barry ; and that is what I always tell folk who come here commenting on the difference in their ages .
`` Old enough to be her father , '' sniffed Mrs. Riddell to me the other day .
I didn't say anything to Mrs. Riddell .
I just looked at her .
I presume my face expressed what I felt pretty clearly .
How any woman can live for sixty years in the world , as Mrs. Riddell has , a wife and mother at that , and not get some realization of the beauty and general satisfactoriness of a real and abiding love , is something I can not understand and never shall be able to .
Nobody in Bridgeport believed that Marcella would ever come back , except Doctor John and me -- not even her Aunt Sara .
I've heard people laugh at me when I said I knew she would ; but nobody minds being laughed at when she is sure of a thing and I was sure that Marcella Barry would come back as that the sun rose and set .
I hadn't lived beside her for eight years to know so little about her as to doubt her .
Neither had Doctor John .
Marcella was only eight years old when she came to live in Bridgeport .
Her father , Chester Barry , had just died .
Her mother , who was a sister of Miss Sara Bryant , my next door neighbor , had been dead for four years .
Marcella's father left her to the guardianship of his brother , Richard Barry ; but Miss Sara pleaded so hard to have the little girl that the Barrys consented to let Marcella live with her aunt until she was sixteen .
Then , they said , she would have to go back to them , to be properly educated and take the place of her father's daughter in his world .
For , of course , it is a fact that Miss Sara Bryant's world was and is a very different one from Chester Barry's world .
As to which side the difference favors , that isn't for me to say .
It all depends on your standard of what is really worth while , you know .
So Marcella came to live with us in Bridgeport .
I say `` us '' advisedly .
She slept and ate in her aunt's house , but every house in the village was a home to her ; for , with all our little disagreements and diverse opinions , we are really all one big family , and everybody feels an interest in and a good working affection for everybody else .
Besides , Marcella was one of those children whom everybody loves at sight , and keeps on loving .
One long , steady gaze from those big grayish-blue black-lashed eyes of hers went right into your heart and stayed there .
She was a pretty child and as good as she was pretty .
It was the right sort of goodness , too , with just enough spice of original sin in it to keep it from spoiling by reason of over-sweetness .
She was a frank , loyal , brave little thing , even at eight , and wouldn't have said or done a mean or false thing to save her life .
She and I were right good friends from the beginning .
She loved me and she loved her Aunt Sara ; but from the very first her best and deepest affection went out to Doctor John Haven , who lived in the big brick house on the other side of Miss Sara's .
Doctor John was a Bridgeport boy , and when he got through college he came right home and settled down here , with his widowed mother .
The Bridgeport girls were fluttered , for eligible young men were scarce in our village ; there was considerable setting of caps , I must say that , although I despise ill-natured gossip ; but neither the caps nor the wearers thereof seemed to make any impression on Doctor John .
Mrs. Riddell said that he was a born old bachelor ; I suppose she based her opinion on the fact that Doctor John was always a quiet , bookish fellow , who didn't care a button for society , and had never been guilty of a flirtation in his life .
I knew Doctor John's heart far better than Martha Riddell could know anybody's ; and I knew there was nothing of the old bachelor in his nature .
He just had to wait for the right woman , that was all , not being able to content himself with less as some men can and do .
If she never came Doctor John would never marry ; but he wouldn't be an old bachelor for all that .
He was thirty when Marcella came to Bridgeport -- a tall , broad-shouldered man with a mane of thick brown curls and level , dark hazel eyes .
He walked with a little stoop , his hands clasped behind him ; and he had the sweetest , deepest voice .
Spoken music , if ever a voice was .
He was kind and brave and gentle , but a little distant and reserved with most people .
Everybody in Bridgeport liked him , but only a very few ever passed the inner gates of his confidence or were admitted to any share in his real life .
I am proud to say I was one ; I think it is something for an old woman to boast of .
Doctor John was always fond of children , and they of him .
It was natural that he and little Marcella should take to each other .
He had the most to do with bringing her up , for Miss Sara consulted him in everything .
Marcella was not hard to manage for the most part ; but she had a will of her own , and when she did set it up in opposition to the powers that were , nobody but the doctor could influence her at all ; she never resisted him or disobeyed his wishes .
Marcella was one of those girls who develop early .
I suppose her constant association with us elderly folks had something to do with it , too .
But , at fifteen , she was a woman , loving , beautiful , and spirited .
And Doctor John loved her -- loved the woman , not the child .
I knew it before he did -- but not , as I think , before Marcella did , for those young , straight-gazing eyes of hers were wonderfully quick to read into other people's hearts .
I watched them together and saw the love growing between them , like a strong , fair , perfect flower , whose fragrance was to endure for eternity .
Miss Sara saw it , too , and was half-pleased and half-worried ; even Miss Sara thought the Doctor too old for Marcella ; and besides , there were the Barrys to be reckoned with .
Those Barrys were the nightmare dread of poor Miss Sara's life .
The time came when Doctor John's eyes were opened .
He looked into his own heart and read there what life had written for him .
As he told me long afterwards , it came to him with a shock that left him white-lipped .
But he was a brave , sensible fellow and he looked the matter squarely in the face .
First of all , he put away to one side all that the world might say ; the thing concerned solely him and Marcella , and the world had nothing to do with it .
That disposed of , he asked himself soberly if he had a right to try to win Marcella's love .
He decided that he had not ; it would be taking an unfair advantage of her youth and inexperience .
He knew that she must soon go to her father's people -- she must not go bound by any ties of his making .
Doctor John , for Marcella's sake , gave the decision against his own heart .
So much did Doctor John tell me , his old friend and confidant .
I said nothing and gave no advice , not having lived seventy-five years for nothing .
I knew that Doctor John's decision was manly and right and fair ; but I also knew it was all nullified by the fact that Marcella already loved him .
So much I knew ; the rest I was left to suppose .
The Doctor and Marcella told me much , but there were some things too sacred to be told , even to me .
So that to this day I don't know how the doctor found out that Marcella loved him .
All I know is that one day , just a month before her sixteenth birthday , the two came hand in hand to Miss Sara and me , as we sat on Miss Sara's veranda in the twilight , and told us simply that they had plighted their troth to each other .
I looked at them standing there with that wonderful sunrise of life and love on their faces -- the doctor , tall and serious , with a sprinkle of silver in his brown hair and the smile of a happy man on his lips -- Marcella , such a slip of a girl , with her black hair in a long braid and her lovely face all dewed over with tears and sunned over with smiles -- I , an old woman , looked at them and thanked the good God for them and their delight .
Miss Sara laughed and cried and kissed -- and forboded what the Barrys would do .
Her forebodings proved only too true .
When the doctor wrote to Richard Barry , Marcella's guardian , asking his consent to their engagement , Richard Barry promptly made trouble -- the very worst kind of trouble .
He descended on Bridgeport and completely overwhelmed poor Miss Sara in his wrath .
He laughed at the idea of countenancing an engagement between a child like Marcella and an obscure country doctor .
And he carried Marcella off with him !
She had to go , of course .
He was her legal guardian and he would listen to no pleadings .
He didn't know anything about Marcella's character , and he thought that a new life out in the great world would soon blot out her fancy .
After the first outburst of tears and prayers Marcella took it very calmly , as far as outward eye could see .
She was as cool and dignified and stately as a young queen .
On the night before she went away she came over to say good-bye to me .
She did not even shed any tears , but the look in her eyes told of bitter hurt .
`` It is goodbye for five years , Miss Tranquil , '' she said steadily .
`` When I am twenty-one I will come back .
That is the only promise I can make .
They will not let me write to John or Aunt Sara and I will do nothing underhanded .
But I will not forget and I will come back . ''
Richard Barry would not even let her see Doctor John alone again .
She had to bid him good-bye beneath the cold , contemptuous eyes of the man of the world .
So there was just a hand-clasp and one long deep look between them that was tenderer than any kiss and more eloquent than any words .
`` I will come back when I am twenty-one , '' said Marcella .
And I saw Richard Barry smile .
So Marcella went away and in all Bridgeport there were only two people who believed she would ever return .
There is no keeping a secret in Bridgeport , and everybody knew all about the love affair between Marcella and the doctor and about the promise she had made .
Everybody sympathized with the doctor because everybody believed he had lost his sweetheart .
`` For of course she'll never come back , '' said Mrs. Riddell to me .
`` She's only a child and she'll soon forget him .
She's to be sent to school and taken abroad and between times she'll live with the Richard Barrys ; and they move , as everyone knows , in the very highest and gayest circles .
I 'm sorry for the doctor , though .
A man of his age doesn't get over a thing like that in a hurry and he was perfectly silly over Marcella .
But it really serves him right for falling in love with a child . ''
There are times when Martha Riddell gets on my nerves .
She's a good-hearted woman , and she means well ; but she rasps -- rasps terribly .
Even Miss Sara exasperated me .
But then she had her excuse .
The child she loved as her own had been torn from her and it almost broke her heart .
But even so , I thought she ought to have had a little more faith in Marcella .
`` Oh , no , she'll never come back , '' sobbed Miss Sara .
`` Yes , I know she promised .
But they'll wean her away from me .
She'll have such a gay , splendid life she'll not want to come back .
Five years is a lifetime at her age .
No , don't try to comfort me , Miss Tranquil , because I won't be comforted ! ''
When a person has made up her mind to be miserable you just have to let her be miserable .
I almost dreaded to see Doctor John for fear he would be in despair , too , without any confidence in Marcella .
But when he came I saw I needn't have worried .
The light had all gone out of his eyes , but there was a calm , steady patience in them .
`` She will come back to me , Miss Tranquil , '' he said .
`` I know what people are saying , but that does not trouble me .
They do not know Marcella as I do .
She promised and she will keep her word -- keep it joyously and gladly , too .
If I did not know that I would not wish its fulfilment .
When she is free she will turn her back on that brilliant world and all it offers her and come back to me .
My part is to wait and believe . ''
So Doctor John waited and believed .
After a little while the excitement died away and people forgot Marcella .
We never heard from or about her , except a paragraph now and then in the society columns of the city paper the doctor took .
We knew she was sent to school for three years ; then the Barrys took her abroad .
She was presented at court .
When the doctor read this -- he was with me at the time -- he put his hand over his eyes and sat very silent for a long time .
I wondered if at last some momentary doubt had crept into his mind -- if he did not fear that Marcella must have forgotten him .
The paper told of her triumph and her beauty and hinted at a titled match .
Was it probable or even possible that she would be faithful to him after all this ?
The doctor must have guessed my thoughts , for at last he looked up with a smile .
`` She will come back , '' was all he said .
But I saw that the doubt , if doubt it were , had gone .
I watched him as he went away , that tall , gentle , kindly-eyed man , and I prayed that his trust might not be misplaced ; for if it should be it would break his heart .
Five years seems a long time in looking forward .
But they pass quickly .
One day I remembered that it was Marcella's twenty-first birthday .
Only one other person thought of it .
Even Miss Sara did not .
Miss Sara remembered Marcella only as a child that had been loved and lost .
Nobody else in Bridgeport thought about her at all .
The doctor came in that evening .
He had a rose in his buttonhole and he walked with a step as light as a boy's .
`` She is free to-day , '' he said .
`` We shall soon have her again , Miss Tranquil . ''
`` Do you think she will be the same ? ''
I said .
I don't know what made me say it .
I hate to be one of those people who throw cold water on other peoples ' hopes .
But it slipped out before I thought .
I suppose the doubt had been vaguely troubling me always , under all my faith in Marcella , and now made itself felt in spite of me .
But the doctor only laughed .
`` How could she be changed ? ''
he said .
`` Some women might be -- most women would be -- but not Marcella .
Dear Miss Tranquil , don't spoil your beautiful record of confidence by doubting her now .
We shall have her again soon -- how soon I don't know , for I don't even know where she is , whether in the old world or the new -- but just as soon as she can come to us . ''
We said nothing more -- neither of us .
But every day the light in the doctor's eyes grew brighter and deeper and tenderer .
He never spoke of Marcella , but I knew she was in his thoughts every moment .
He was much calmer than I was .
I trembled when the postman knocked , jumped when the gate latch clicked , and fairly had a cold chill if I saw a telegraph boy running down the street .
One evening , a fortnight later , I went over to see Miss Sara .
She was out somewhere , so I sat down in her little sitting room to wait for her .
Presently the doctor came in and we sat in the soft twilight , talking a little now and then , but silent when we wanted to be , as becomes real friendship .
It was such a beautiful evening .
Outside in Miss Sara's garden the roses were white and red , and sweet with dew ; the honeysuckle at the window sent in delicious breaths now and again ; a few sleepy birds were twittering ; between the trees the sky was all pink and silvery blue and there was an evening star over the elm in my front yard .
We heard somebody come through the door and down the hall .
I turned , expecting to see Miss Sara -- and I saw Marcella !
She was standing in the doorway , tall and beautiful , with a ray of sunset light falling athwart her black hair under her travelling hat .
She was looking past me at Doctor John and in her splendid eyes was the look of the exile who had come home to her own .
`` Marcella ! ''
said the doctor .
I went out by the dining-room door and shut it behind me , leaving them alone together .
The wedding is to be next month .
Miss Sara is beside herself with delight .
The excitement has been really terrible , and the way people have talked and wondered and exclaimed has almost worn my patience clean out .
I've snubbed more persons in the last ten days than I ever did in all my life before .
Nothing of this worries Doctor John or Marcella .
They are too happy to care for gossip or outside curiosity .
The Barrys are not coming to the wedding , I understand .
They refuse to forgive Marcella or countenance her folly , as they call it , in any way .
Folly !
When I see those two together and realize what they mean to each other I have some humble , reverent idea of what true wisdom is .
