Will Barrie went whistling down the lane of the Locksley farm , took a short cut over a field of clover aftermath and through a sloping orchard where the trees were laden with apples , and emerged into the farmhouse yard where Curtis Locksley was sitting on a pile of logs , idly whittling at a stick .
`` You look as if you had a corner in time , Curt , '' said Will .
`` I call that luck , for I want you to go chestnutting up to Grier's Hill with me .
I met old Tom Grier on the road yesterday , and he told me I might go any day .
Nice old man , Tom Grier . ''
`` Good ! ''
said Curtis heartily , as he sprang up .
`` If I haven't exactly a corner in time , I have a day off , at least .
Uncle doesn't need me today .
Wait till I whistle for Don .
May as well take him with us . ''
Curtis whistled accordingly , but Don , his handsome Newfoundland dog , did not appear .
After calling and whistling about the yard and barns for several minutes , Curtis turned away disappointedly .
`` He can't be anywhere around .
It is very strange .
Don never used to go away from home without me , but lately he has been missing several times , and twice last week he wasn't here in the morning and didn't turn up until midday . ''
`` I 'd keep him shut up until I broke him of the habit of playing truant , if I were you , '' said Will , as they turned into the lane .
`` Don hates to be shut up , howls all the time so mournfully that I can't stand it , '' responded Curtis .
`` Well , '' said Will , hesitatingly , `` maybe that would be better after all than letting him stray away with other dogs who may teach him bad habits .
I saw Don myself one evening last week ambling down the Harbour road with that big brown dog of Sam Ventnor's .
Ventnor's dog is beginning to have a bad reputation , you know .
There have been several sheep worried lately , and -- '' `` Don wouldn't touch a sheep ! ''
interrupted Curtis hotly .
`` I daresay not , not yet .
But Ventnor's dog is under suspicion , and if Don runs with him he'll learn the trick sure as preaching .
The farmers are growling a good bit already , and if they hear of Don and Ventnor's dog going about in company , they'll put it on them both .
Better keep Don shut up awhile , let him howl as he likes . ''
`` I believe I will , '' said Curtis soberly .
`` I don't want Don to fall under suspicion of sheep-worrying , though I 'm sure he would never do it .
Anyhow , I don't want him to run with Ventnor's dog .
I'll chain him up in the barn when I go home .
I couldn't stand it if anything happened to Don .
After you , he's the only chum I've got -- and he's a good one . ''
Will agreed .
He was almost as fond of Don as Curtis was .
But he did not feel so sure that the dog would not worry a sheep .
Will knew that Don was suspected already , but he did not like to tell Curtis so .
And of course there was as yet no positive proof -- merely mutterings and suggestions among the Bayside farmers who had lost sheep and were anxious to locate their slayer .
There were many other dogs in Bayside and the surrounding districts who were just as likely to be the guilty animals , and Will hoped that if Don were shut up for a time , suspicion might be averted from him , especially if the worryings still went on .
He had felt a little doubtful about hinting the truth to Curtis , who was a high-spirited lad and always resented any slur cast upon Don much more bitterly than if it were meant for himself .
But he knew that Curtis would take it better from him than from the other Bayside boys , one or the other of whom would be sure soon to cast something up to Curtis about his dog .
Will felt decidedly relieved to find that Curtis took his advice in the spirit in which it was offered .
`` Who have lost sheep lately ? ''
queried Curtis , as they left the main road and struck into a wood path through the ranks of beeches on Tom Grier's land .
`` Nearly everybody on the Hollow farms , '' answered Will .
`` Until last week nobody on the Hill farms had lost any .
But Tuesday night old Paul Stockton had six fine sheep killed in his upland pasture behind the fir woods .
He is furious about it , I believe , and vows he'll find out what dog did it and have him shot . ''
Curtis looked grave .
Paul Stockton's farm was only about a quarter of a mile from the Locksley homestead , and he knew that Paul had an old family grudge against his Uncle Arnold , which included his nephew and all belonging to him .
Moreover , Curtis remembered with a sinking heart that Wednesday morning had been one of the mornings upon which Don was missing .
`` But I don't care ! ''
he thought miserably .
`` I know Don didn't kill those sheep . ''
`` Talking of old Paul , '' said Will , who thought it advisable to turn the conversation , `` reminds me that they are getting anxious at the Harbour about George Finley's schooner , the Amy Reade .
She was due three days ago and there's no sign of her yet .
And there have been two bad gales since she left Morro .
Oscar Stockton is on board of her , you know , and his father is worried about him .
There are five other men on her , all from the Harbour , and their folks down there are pretty wild about the schooner . ''
Nothing more was said about the sheep , and soon , in the pleasures of chestnutting , Curtis forgot his anxiety .
Old Tom Grier had called to the boys as they passed his house to come back and have dinner there when the time came .
This they did , and it was late in the afternoon when Curtis , with his bag of chestnuts over his shoulder , walked into the Locksley yard .
His uncle was standing before the open barn doors , talking to an elderly , grizzled man with a thin , shrewd face .
Curtis's heart sank as he recognized old Paul Stockton .
What could have brought him over ?
`` Curtis , '' called his uncle , `` come here . ''
As Curtis crossed the yard , Don came bounding down the slope from the house to meet him .
He put his hand on the dog's big head and the two of them walked slowly to the barn .
Old Paul included them both in a vindictive scowl .
`` Curtis , '' said his uncle gravely , `` here's a bad business .
Mr. Stockton tells me that your dog has been worrying his sheep . ''
`` It's a -- '' began Curtis angrily .
Then he checked himself and went on more calmly .
`` That can't be so , Mr. Stockton .
My dog would not harm anything . ''
`` He killed or helped to kill six of the finest sheep in my flock ! ''
retorted old Paul .
`` What proof have you of it ? ''
demanded Curtis , trying to keep his anger within bounds .
`` Abner Peck saw your dog and Ventnor's running together through my sheep pasture at sundown on Tuesday evening , '' answered old Paul .
`` Wednesday morning I found this in the corner of the pasture where the sheep were worried .
Your uncle admits that it was tied around your dog's neck on Tuesday . ''
And old Paul held out triumphantly a faded red ribbon .
Curtis recognized it at a glance .
It was the ribbon his little cousin , Lena , had tied around Don's neck Tuesday afternoon .
He remembered how they had laughed at the effect of that frivolous red collar and bow on Don's massive body .
`` I 'm sure Don isn't guilty ! ''
he cried passionately .
Mr. Locksley shook his head .
`` I 'm afraid he is , Curtis .
The case looks very black against him , and sheep-stealing is a serious offence . ''
`` The dog must be shot , '' said old Paul decidedly .
`` I leave the matter in your hands , Mr. Locksley .
I've got enough proof to convict the dog and , if you don't have him killed , I'll make you pay for the sheep he worried . ''
As old Paul strode away , Curtis looked beseechingly at his uncle .
`` Don mustn't be shot , Uncle ! ''
he said desperately .
`` I'll chain him up all the time . ''
`` And have him howling night and day as if we had a brood of banshees about the place ? ''
said Mr. Locksley sarcastically .
He was a stern man with little sentiment in his nature and no understanding whatever of Curtis's affection for Don .
The Bayside people said that Arnold Locksley had always been very severe with his nephew .
`` No , no , Curtis , you must look at the matter sensibly .
The dog is a nuisance and must be shot .
You can't keep him shut up forever , and , if he has once learned the trick of sheep-worrying , he will never forget it .
You can get another dog if you must have one .
I'll get Charles Pippey to come and shoot Don tomorrow .
No sulking now , Curtis .
You are too big a boy for that .
Tie the dog up for the night and then go and put the calves in .
There is a storm coming .
The wind is blowing hard from the northeast now . ''
His uncle walked away , leaving the boy white and miserable in the yard .
He looked at Don , who sat on his haunches and returned his gaze frankly and open-heartedly .
He did not look like a guilty dog .
Could it be possible that he had really worried those sheep ?
`` I'll never believe it of you , old fellow ! ''
Curtis said , as he led the dog into a corner of the carriage house and tied him up there .
Then he flung himself down on a pile of sacks beside him and buried his face in Don's curly black fur .
The boy felt sullen , rebellious and wretched .
He lay there until dark , thinking his own bitter thoughts and listening to the rapidly increasing gale .
Finally he got up and flung off after the calves , with Don's melancholy howls at finding himself deserted ringing in his ears .
He'll be quiet enough tomorrow night , thought Curtis wretchedly , as he went upstairs to bed after housing the calves .
For a long while he lay awake , but finally dropped into a heavy slumber which lasted until his aunt called him for milking .
The wind was blowing more furiously than ever .
Up over the fields came the roar and crash of the surges on the outside shore .
The Harbour to the east of Bayside was rough and stormy .
They were just rising from breakfast when Will Barrie burst into the kitchen .
`` The Amy Reade is ashore on Gleeson's rocks ! ''
he shouted .
`` Struck there at daylight this morning !
Come on , Curt ! ''
Curtis sprang for his cap , his uncle following suit more deliberately .
As the two boys ran through the yard , Curtis heard Don howling .
`` I'll take him with me ! ''
he muttered .
`` Wait a minute , Will . ''
The Harbour road was thronged with people hurrying to the outside shore , for the news of the Amy Readers disaster had spread rapidly .
As the boys , with the rejoicing Don at their heels , pelted along , Sam Morrow overtook them in a cart and told them to jump in .
Sam had already been down to the shore and had gone back to tell his father .
As they jolted along , he screamed information at them over the shriek of the gale .
`` Bad business , this !
She's pounding on a reef ` bout a quarter of a mile out .
They 're sure she's going to break up -- old tub , you know -- leaky -- rotten .
The sea's tremenjus high , and the surfs going dean over her .
There can't be no boat launched for hours yet -- they'll all be drowned .
Old Paul's down there like a madman -- offering everything he's got to the man who'll save Oscar , but it can't be done . ''
By this time they had reached the shore , which was black with excited people .
Out on Gleeson's Reef the ill-fated little schooner was visible amid the flying spray .
A grizzled old Harbour fisherman , to whom Sam shouted a question , shook his head .
`` No , can't do nothin ' !
No boat c 'd live in that surf f ' r a moment .
The schooner'll go to pieces mighty soon , I 'm feared .
It's turrible !
turrible !
to stan ' by an ' watch yer neighbours drown like this ! ''
Curtis and Will elbowed their way down to the water's edge .
The relatives of the crew were all there in various stages of despair , but old Paul Stockton seemed like a man demented .
He ran up and down the beach , crying and praying .
His only son was on the Amy Reade , and he could do nothing to save him !
`` What are they doing ? ''
asked Will of Martin Clark .
`` Trying to get a line ashore by throwing out a small rope with a stick tied to it , '' answered Martin .
`` It's young Stockton that's trying now .
But it isn't any use .
The cross-currents on that reef are too powerful . ''
`` Why , Don will bring that line ashore ! ''
exclaimed Curtis .
`` Here , Don !
Don , I say ! ''
The dog bounded back along the shore with a quick bark .
Curtis grasped him by the collar and pointed to the stick which young Stockton had just hurled again into the water .
Don , with another bark of comprehension , dashed into the sea .
The onlookers , grasping the situation , gave a cheer and then relapsed into silence .
Only the shriek of the gale and the crash of the waves could be heard as they watched the magnificent dog swimming out through the breakers , his big black head now rising on the crest of a wave and now disappearing in the hollow behind it .
When Don finally reached the tossing stick , grasped it in his mouth and turned shoreward , another great shout went up from the beach .
A woman behind Curtis , whose husband was on the schooner , dropped on her knees on the pebbles , sobbing and thanking God .
Curtis himself felt the stinging tears start to his eyes .
When Don reached the shore he dropped the stick at Curtis's feet and gave himself a tremendous shake .
Curtis caught at the stick , while a dozen men and women threw themselves bodily on Don , hugging him and kissing his wet fur like distracted creatures .
Old Paul Stockton was among them .
Over his shoulder Don's big black head looked up , his eyes asking as plainly as speech what all this fuss was about .
Meanwhile some of the men had already pulled a big hawser ashore and made it fast .
In half an hour the crew of the Amy Reade were safe on shore , chilled and dripping .
Before they were hurried away to warmth and shelter , old Paul Stockton caught Curtis's hand .
The tears were running freely down his hard , old face .
`` Tell your uncle he is not to lay a finger on that dog ! ''
he said .
`` He never killed a sheep of mine -- he couldn't !
And if he did I don't care !
He's welcome to kill them all , if nothing but mutton'll serve his turn . ''
Curtis walked home with a glad heart .
Mr. Locksley heard old Paul's message with a smile .
He , too , had been touched by Don's splendid feat .
`` Well , Curtis , I 'm very glad that it has turned old Paul in his favour .
But we must shut Don up for a week or so , no matter how hard he takes it .
You can see that for yourself .
After all , he might have worried the sheep .
And , anyway , he must be broken of his intimacy with Ventnor's dog . ''
Curtis acknowledged the justice of this and poor Don was tied up again .
His captivity was not long , however , for Ventnor's dog was soon shot .
When Don was released , Curtis had an anxious time for a week or two .
But no more sheep were worried , and Don's innocence was triumphantly established .
As for old Paul Stockton , it seemed as if he could not do enough for Curtis and Don .
His ancient grudge against the Locksleys was completely forgotten , and from that date he was a firm friend of Curtis .
In regard to Don , old Paul would say : `` Why , there never was such a dog before , sir , never !
He just talks with his eyes , that dog does .
And if you 'd just ` a ' seen him swimming out to that schooner !
Bones ?
Yes , sir !
Every time that dog comes here he's to get the best bones we've got for him -- and more 'n bones , too .
That dog's a hero , sir , that's what he is ! ''
