Margaret paused a moment at the gate and looked back at the quaint old house under its snowy firs with a thrill of proprietary affection .
It was her home ; for the first time in her life she had a real home , and the long , weary years of poorly paid drudgery were all behind her .
Before her was a prospect of independence and many of the delights she had always craved ; in the immediate future was a trip to Vancouver with Mrs. Boyd .
For I shall go , of course , thought Margaret , as she walked briskly down the snowy road .
I've always wanted to see the Rockies , and to go there with Mrs. Boyd will double the pleasure .
She is such a delightful companion .
Margaret Campbell had been an orphan ever since she could remember .
She had been brought up by a distant relative of her father's -- that is , she had been given board , lodging , some schooling and indifferent clothes for the privilege of working like a little drudge in the house of the grim cousin who sheltered her .
The death of this cousin flung Margaret on her own resources .
A friend had procured her employment as the `` companion '' of a rich , eccentric old lady , infirm of health and temper .
Margaret lived with her for five years , and to the young girl they seemed treble the time .
Her employer was fault-finding , peevish , unreasonable , and many a time Margaret's patience almost failed her -- almost , but not quite .
In the end it brought her a more tangible reward than sometimes falls to the lot of the toiler .
Mrs. Constance died , and in her will she left to Margaret her little up-country cottage and enough money to provide her an income for the rest of her life .
Margaret took immediate possession of her little house and , with the aid of a capable old servant , soon found herself very comfortable .
She realized that her days of drudgery were over , and that henceforth life would be a very different thing from what it had been .
Margaret meant to have `` a good time . ''
She had never had any pleasure and now she was resolved to garner in all she could of the joys of existence .
`` I 'm not going to do a single useful thing for a year , '' she had told Mrs. Boyd gaily .
`` Just think of it -- a whole delightful year of vacation , to go and come at will , to read , travel , dream , rest .
After that , I mean to see if I can find something to do for other folks , but I 'm going to have this one golden year .
And the first thing in it is our trip to Vancouver .
I 'm so glad I have the chance to go with you .
It's a wee bit short notice , but I'll be ready when you want to start . ''
Altogether , Margaret felt pretty well satisfied with life as she tripped blithely down the country road between the ranks of snow-laden spruces , with the blue sky above and the crisp , exhilarating air all about .
There was only one drawback , but it was a pretty serious one .
It's so lonely by spells , Margaret sometimes thought wistfully .
All the joys my good fortune has brought me can't quite fill my heart .
There's always one little empty , aching spot .
Oh , if I had somebody of my very own to love and care for , a mother , a sister , even a cousin .
But there's nobody .
I haven't a relative in the world , and there are times when I 'd give almost anything to have one .
Well , I must try to be satisfied with friendship , instead .
Margaret's meditations were interrupted by a brisk footstep behind her , and presently Dr. Forbes came up .
`` Good afternoon , Miss Campbell .
Taking a constitutional ? ''
`` Yes .
Isn't it a lovely day ?
I suppose you are on your professional rounds .
How are all your patients ? ''
`` Most of them are doing well .
But I 'm sorry to say I have a new one and am very much worried about her .
Do you know Freda Martin ? ''
`` The little teacher in the Primary Department who boards with the Wayes ?
Yes , I've met her once or twice .
Is she ill ? ''
`` Yes , seriously .
It's typhoid , and she has been going about longer than she should .
I don't know what is to be done with her .
It seems she is like yourself in one respect , Miss Campbell ; she is utterly alone in the world .
Mrs. Waye is crippled with rheumatism and can't nurse her , and I fear it will be impossible to get a nurse in Blythefield .
She ought to be taken from the Wayes ' .
The house is overrun with children , is right next door to that noisy factory , and in other respects is a poor place for a sick girl . ''
`` It is too bad , I am very sorry , '' said Margaret sympathetically .
Dr. Forbes shot a keen look at her from his deep-set eyes .
`` Are you willing to show your sympathy in a practical form , Miss Campbell ? ''
he said bluntly .
`` You told me the other day you meant to begin work for others next year .
Why not begin now ?
Here's a splendid chance to befriend a friendless girl .
Will you take Freda Martin into your home during her illness ? ''
`` Oh , I couldn't , '' cried Margaret blankly .
`` Why , I 'm going away next week .
I 'm going with Mrs. Boyd to Vancouver , and my house will be shut up . ''
`` Oh , I did not know .
That settles it , I suppose , '' said the doctor with a sigh of regret .
`` Well , I must see what else I can do for poor Freda .
If I had a home of my own , the problem would be easily solved , but as I 'm only a boarder myself , I 'm helpless in that respect .
I 'm very much afraid she will have a hard time to pull through , but I'll do the best I can for her .
Well , I must run in here and have a look at Tommy Griggs ' eyes .
Good morning , Miss Campbell . ''
Margaret responded rather absently and walked on with her eyes fixed on the road .
Somehow all the joy had gone out of the day for her , and out of her prospective trip .
She stopped on the little bridge and gazed unseeingly at the ice-bound creek .
Did Dr. Forbes really think she ought to give up her trip in order to take Freda Martin into her home and probably nurse her as well , since skilled nursing of any kind was almost unobtainable in Blythefield ?
No , of course , Dr. Forbes did not mean anything of the sort .
He had not known she intended to go away .
Margaret tried to put the thought out of her mind , but it came insistently back .
She knew -- none better -- what it was to be alone and friendless .
Once she had been ill , too , and left to the ministration of careless servants .
Margaret shuddered whenever she thought of that time .
She was very , very sorry for Freda Martin , but she certainly couldn't give up her plans for her .
`` Why , I 'd never have the chance to go with Mrs. Boyd again , '' she argued with her troublesome inward promptings .
Altogether , Margaret's walk was spoiled .
But when she went to bed that night , she was firmly resolved to dismiss all thought of Freda Martin .
In the middle of the night she woke up .
It was calm and moonlight and frosty .
The world was very still , and Margaret's heart and conscience spoke to her out of that silence , where all worldly motives were hushed and shamed .
She listened , and knew that in the morning she must send for Dr. Forbes and tell him to bring his patient to Fir Cottage .
The evening of the next day found Freda in Margaret's spare room and Margaret herself installed as nurse , for as Dr. Forbes had feared , he had found it impossible to obtain anyone else .
Margaret had a natural gift for nursing , and she had had a good deal of experience in sick rooms .
She was skilful , gentle and composed , and Dr. Forbes nodded his head with satisfaction as he watched her .
A week later Mrs. Boyd left for Vancouver , and Margaret , bending over her delirious patient , could not even go to the station to see her off .
But she thought little about it .
All her hopes were centred on pulling Freda Martin through ; and when , after a long , doubtful fortnight , Dr. Forbes pronounced her on the way to recovery , Margaret felt as if she had given the gift of life to a fellow creature .
`` Oh , I am so glad I stayed , '' she whispered to herself .
During Freda's convalescence Margaret learned to love her dearly .
She was such a sweet , brave little creature , full of a fine courage to face the loneliness and trials of her lot .
`` I can never repay you for your kindness , Miss Campbell , '' she said wistfully .
`` I am more than repaid already , '' said Margaret sincerely .
`` Haven't I found a dear little friend ? ''
One day Freda asked Margaret to write a note for her to a certain school chum .
`` She will like to know I am getting better .
You will find her address in my writing desk . ''
Freda's modest trunk had been brought to Fir Cottage , and Margaret went to it for the desk .
As she turned over the loose papers in search of the address , her eye was caught by a name signed to a faded and yellowed letter -- Worth Spencer .
Her mother's name !
Margaret gave a little exclamation of astonishment .
Could her mother have written that letter ?
It was not likely another woman would have that uncommon name .
Margaret caught up the letter and ran to Freda's room .
`` Freda , I couldn't help seeing the name signed to this letter , it is my mother's .
To whom was it written ? ''
`` That is one of my mother's old letters , '' said Freda .
`` She had a sister , my Aunt Worth .
She was a great deal older than Mother .
Their parents died when Mother was a baby .
Aunt Worth went to her father's people , while Mother's grandmother took her .
There was not very good feeling between the two families , I think .
Mother said she lost trace of her sister after her sister married , and then , long after , she saw Aunt Worth's death in the papers . ''
`` Can you tell me where your mother and her sister lived before they were separated ? ''
asked Margaret excitedly .
`` Ridgetown . ''
`` Then my mother must have been your mother's sister , and , oh , Freda , Freda , you are my cousin . ''
Eventually this was proved to be the fact .
Margaret investigated the matter and discovered beyond a doubt that she and Freda were cousins .
It would be hard to say which of the two girls was the more delighted .
`` Anyhow , we'll never be parted again , '' said Margaret happily .
`` Fir Cottage is your home henceforth , Freda .
Oh , how rich I am .
I have got somebody who really belongs to me .
And I owe it all to Dr. Forbes .
If he hadn't suggested you coming here , I should never have found out that we were cousins . ''
`` And I don't think I should ever have got better at all , '' whispered Freda , slipping her hand into Margaret's .
`` I think we are going to be the two happiest girls in the world , '' said Margaret .
`` And Freda , do you know what we are going to do when your summer vacation comes ?
We are going to have a trip through the Rockies , yes , indeedy .
It would have been nice going with Mrs. Boyd , but it will be ten times nicer to go with you . ''
