Few people in Avonlea could understand why Elinor Blair had never married .
She had been one of the most beautiful girls in our part of the Island and , as a woman of fifty , she was still very attractive .
In her youth she had had ever so many beaux , as we of our generation well remembered ; but , after her return from visiting her brother Tom in the Canadian Northwest , more than twenty-five years ago , she had seemed to withdraw within herself , keeping all men at a safe , though friendly , distance .
She had been a gay , laughing girl when she went West ; she came back quiet and serious , with a shadowed look in her eyes which time could not quite succeed in blotting out .
Elinor had never talked much about her visit , except to describe the scenery and the life , which in that day was rough indeed .
Not even to me , who had grown up next door to her and who had always seemed more a sister than a friend , did she speak of other than the merest commonplaces .
But when Tom Blair made a flying trip back home , some ten years later , there were one or two of us to whom he related the story of Jerome Carey , -- a story revealing only too well the reason for Elinor's sad eyes and utter indifference to masculine attentions .
I can recall almost his exact words and the inflections of his voice , and I remember , too , that it seemed to me a far cry from the tranquil , pleasant scene before us , on that lovely summer day , to the elemental life of the Flats .
The Flats was a forlorn little trading station fifteen miles up the river from Prince Albert , with a scanty population of half-breeds and three white men .
When Jerome Carey was sent to take charge of the telegraph office there , he cursed his fate in the picturesque language permissible in the far Northwest .
Not that Carey was a profane man , even as men go in the West .
He was an English gentleman , and he kept both his life and his vocabulary pretty clean .
But -- the Flats !
Outside of the ragged cluster of log shacks , which comprised the settlement , there was always a shifting fringe of teepees where the Indians , who drifted down from the Reservation , camped with their dogs and squaws and papooses .
There are standpoints from which Indians are interesting , but they can not be said to offer congenial social attractions .
For three weeks after Carey went to the Flats he was lonelier than he had ever imagined it possible to be , even in the Great Lone Land .
If it had not been for teaching Paul Dumont the telegraphic code , Carey believed he would have been driven to suicide in self-defense .
The telegraphic importance of the Flats consisted in the fact that it was the starting point of three telegraph lines to remote trading posts up North .
Not many messages came therefrom , but the few that did come generally amounted to something worth while .
Days and even weeks would pass without a single one being clicked to the Flats .
Carey was debarred from talking over the wires to the Prince Albert man for the reason that they were on officially bad terms .
He blamed the latter for his transfer to the Flats .
Carey slept in a loft over the office , and got his meals as Joe Esquint's , across the `` street . ''
Joe Esquint's wife was a good cook , as cooks go among the breeds , and Carey soon became a great pet of hers .
Carey had a habit of becoming a pet with women .
He had the `` way '' that has to be born in a man and can never be acquired .
Besides , he was as handsome as clean-cut features , deep-set , dark-blue eyes , fair curls and six feet of muscle could make him .
Mrs. Joe Esquint thought that his mustache was the most wonderfully beautiful thing , in its line , that she had ever seen .
Fortunately , Mrs. Joe was so old and fat and ugly that even the malicious and inveterate gossip of skulking breeds and Indians , squatting over teepee fires , could not hint at anything questionable in the relations between her and Carey .
But it was a different matter with Tannis Dumont .
Tannis came home from the academy at Prince Albert early in July , when Carey had been at the Flats a month and had exhausted all the few novelties of his position .
Paul Dumont had already become so expert at the code that his mistakes no longer afforded Carey any fun , and the latter was getting desperate .
He had serious intentions of throwing up the business altogether , and betaking himself to an Alberta ranch , where at least one would have the excitement of roping horses .
When he saw Tannis Dumont he thought he would hang on awhile longer , anyway .
Tannis was the daughter of old Auguste Dumont , who kept the one small store at the Flats , lived in the one frame house that the place boasted , and was reputed to be worth an amount of money which , in half-breed eyes , was a colossal fortune .
Old Auguste was black and ugly and notoriously bad-tempered .
But Tannis was a beauty .
Tannis ' great-grandmother had been a Cree squaw who married a French trapper .
The son of this union became in due time the father of Auguste Dumont .
Auguste married a woman whose mother was a French half-breed and whose father was a pure-bred Highland Scotchman .
The result of this atrocious mixture was its justification -- Tannis of the Flats -- who looked as if all the blood of all the Howards might be running in her veins .
But , after all , the dominant current in those same veins was from the race of plain and prairie .
The practiced eye detected it in the slender stateliness of carriage , in the graceful , yet voluptuous , curves of the lithe body , in the smallness and delicacy of hand and foot , in the purple sheen on straight-falling masses of blue-black hair , and , more than all else , in the long , dark eye , full and soft , yet alight with a slumbering fire .
France , too , was responsible for somewhat in Tannis .
It gave her a light step in place of the stealthy half-breed shuffle , it arched her red upper lip into a more tremulous bow , it lent a note of laughter to her voice and a sprightlier wit to her tongue .
As for her red-headed Scotch grandfather , he had bequeathed her a somewhat whiter skin and ruddier bloom than is usually found in the breeds .
Old Auguste was mightily proud of Tannis .
He sent her to school for four years in Prince Albert , bound that his girl should have the best .
A High School course and considerable mingling in the social life of the town -- for old Auguste was a man to be conciliated by astute politicians , since he controlled some two or three hundred half-breed votes -- sent Tannis home to the Flats with a very thin , but very deceptive , veneer of culture and civilization overlying the primitive passions and ideas of her nature .
Carey saw only the beauty and the veneer .
He made the mistake of thinking that Tannis was what she seemed to be -- a fairly well-educated , up-to-date young woman with whom a friendly flirtation was just what it was with white womankind -- the pleasant amusement of an hour or season .
It was a mistake -- a very big mistake .
Tannis understood something of piano playing , something less of grammar and Latin , and something less still of social prevarications .
But she understood absolutely nothing of flirtation .
You can never get an Indian to see the sense of Platonics .
Carey found the Flats quite tolerable after the homecoming of Tannis .
He soon fell into the habit of dropping into the Dumont house to spend the evening , talking with Tannis in the parlor -- which apartment was amazingly well done for a place like the Flats -- Tannis had not studied Prince Albert parlors four years for nothing -- or playing violin and piano duets with her .
When music and conversation palled , they went for long gallops over the prairies together .
Tannis rode to perfection , and managed her bad-tempered brute of a pony with a skill and grace that made Carey applaud her .
She was glorious on horseback .
Sometimes he grew tired of the prairies and then he and Tannis paddled themselves over the river in Nitchie Joe's dug-out , and landed on the old trail that struck straight into the wooded belt of the Saskatchewan valley , leading north to trading posts on the frontier of civilization .
There they rambled under huge pines , hoary with the age of centuries , and Carey talked to Tannis about England and quoted poetry to her .
Tannis liked poetry ; she had studied it at school , and understood it fairly well .
But once she told Carey that she thought it a long , round-about way of saying what you could say just as well in about a dozen plain words .
Carey laughed .
He liked to evoke those little speeches of hers .
They sounded very clever , dropping from such arched , ripely-tinted lips .
If you had told Carey that he was playing with fire he would have laughed at you .
In the first place he was not in the slightest degree in love with Tannis -- he merely admired and liked her .
In the second place , it never occurred to him that Tannis might be in love with him .
Why , he had never attempted any love-making with her !
And , above all , he was obsessed with that aforesaid fatal idea that Tannis was like the women he had associated with all his life , in reality as well as in appearance .
He did not know enough of the racial characteristics to understand .
But , if Carey thought his relationship with Tannis was that of friendship merely , he was the only one at the Flats who did think so .
All the half-breeds and quarter-breeds and any-fractional breeds there believed that he meant to marry Tannis .
There would have been nothing surprising to them in that .
They did not know that Carey's second cousin was a baronet , and they would not have understood that it need make any difference , if they had .
They thought that rich old Auguste's heiress , who had been to school for four years in Prince Albert , was a catch for anybody .
Old Auguste himself shrugged his shoulders over it and was well-pleased enough .
An Englishman was a prize by way of a husband for a half-breed girl , even if he were only a telegraph operator .
Young Paul Dumont worshipped Carey , and the half-Scotch mother , who might have understood , was dead .
In all the Flats there were but two people who disapproved of the match they thought an assured thing .
One of these was the little priest , Father Gabriel .
He liked Tannis , and he liked Carey ; but he shook his head dubiously when he heard the gossip of the shacks and teepees .
Religions might mingle , but the different bloods -- ah , it was not the right thing !
Tannis was a good girl , and a beautiful one ; but she was no fit mate for the fair , thorough-bred Englishman .
Father Gabriel wished fervently that Jerome Carey might soon be transferred elsewhere .
He even went to Prince Albert and did a little wire-pulling on his own account , but nothing came of it .
He was on the wrong side of politics .
The other malcontent was Lazarre M&eacute;rim&eacute;e , a lazy , besotted French half-breed , who was , after his fashion , in love with Tannis .
He could never have got her , and he knew it -- old Auguste and young Paul would have incontinently riddled him with bullets had he ventured near the house as a suitor , -- but he hated Carey none the less , and watched for a chance to do him an ill-turn .
There is no worse enemy in all the world than a half-breed .
Your true Indian is bad enough , but his diluted descendant is ten times worse .
As for Tannis , she loved Carey with all her heart , and that was all there was about it .
If Elinor Blair had never gone to Prince Albert there is no knowing what might have happened , after all .
Carey , so powerful in propinquity , might even have ended by learning to love Tannis and marrying her , to his own worldly undoing .
But Elinor did go to Prince Albert , and her going ended all things for Tannis of the Flats .
Carey met her one evening in September , when he had ridden into town to attend a dance , leaving Paul Dumont in charge of the telegraph office .
Elinor had just arrived in Prince Albert on a visit to Tom , to which she had been looking forward during the five years since he had married and moved out West from Avonlea .
As I have already said , she was very beautiful at that time , and Carey fell in love with her at the first moment of their meeting .
During the next three weeks he went to town nine times and called at the Dumonts ' only once .
There were no more rides and walks with Tannis .
This was not intentional neglect on his part .
He had simply forgotten all about her .
The breeds surmised a lover's quarrel , but Tannis understood .
There was another woman back there in town .
It would be quite impossible to put on paper any adequate idea of her emotions at this stage .
One night , she followed Carey when he went to Prince Albert , riding out of earshot , behind him on her plains pony , but keeping him in sight .
Lazarre , in a fit of jealousy , had followed Tannis , spying on her until she started back to the Flats .
After that he watched both Carey and Tannis incessantly , and months later had told Tom all he had learned through his low sneaking .
Tannis trailed Carey to the Blair house , on the bluffs above the town , and saw him tie his horse at the gate and enter .
She , too , tied her pony to a poplar , lower down , and then crept stealthily through the willows at the side of the house until she was close to the windows .
Through one of them she could see Carey and Elinor .
The half-breed girl crouched down in the shadow and glared at her rival .
She saw the pretty , fair-tinted face , the fluffy coronal of golden hair , the blue , laughing eyes of the woman whom Jerome Carey loved , and she realized very plainly that there was nothing left to hope for .
She , Tannis of the Flats , could never compete with that other .
It was well to know so much , at least .
After a time , she crept softly away , loosed her pony , and lashed him mercilessly with her whip through the streets of the town and out the long , dusty river trail .
A man turned and looked after her as she tore past a brightly lighted store on Water Street .
`` That was Tannis of the Flats , '' he said to a companion .
`` She was in town last winter , going to school -- a beauty and a bit of the devil , like all those breed girls .
What in thunder is she riding like that for ? ''
One day , a fortnight later , Carey went over the river alone for a ramble up the northern trail , and an undisturbed dream of Elinor .
When he came back Tannis was standing at the canoe landing , under a pine tree , in a rain of finely sifted sunlight .
She was waiting for him and she said , with any preface : `` Mr. Carey , why do you never come to see me , now ? ''
Carey flushed like any girl .
Her tone and look made him feel very uncomfortable .
He remembered , self-reproachfully , that he must have seemed very neglectful , and he stammered something about having been busy .
`` Not very busy , '' said Tannis , with her terrible directness .
`` It is not that .
It is because you are going to Prince Albert to see a white woman ! ''
Even in his embarrassment Carey noted that this was the first time he had ever heard Tannis use the expression , `` a white woman , '' or any other that would indicate her sense of a difference between herself and the dominant race .
He understood , at the same moment , that this girl was not to be trifled with -- that she would have the truth out of him , first or last .
But he felt indescribably foolish .
`` I suppose so , '' he answered lamely .
`` And what about me ? ''
asked Tannis .
When you come to think of it , this was an embarrassing question , especially for Carey , who had believed that Tannis understood the game , and played it for its own sake , as he did .
`` I don't understand you , Tannis , '' he said hurriedly .
`` You have made me love you , '' said Tannis .
The words sound flat enough on paper .
They did not sound flat to Tom , as repeated by Lazarre , and they sounded anything but flat to Carey , hurled at him as they were by a woman trembling with all the passions of her savage ancestry .
Tannis had justified her criticism of poetry .
She had said her half-dozen words , instinct with all the despair and pain and wild appeal that all the poetry in the world had ever expressed .
They made Carey feel like a scoundrel .
All at once he realized how impossible it would be to explain matters to Tannis , and that he would make a still bigger fool of himself , if he tried .
`` I am very sorry , '' he stammered , like a whipped schoolboy .
`` It is no matter , '' interrupted Tannis violently .
`` What difference does it make about me -- a half-breed girl ?
We breed girls are only born to amuse the white men .
That is so -- is it not ?
Then , when they are tired of us , they push us aside and go back to their own kind .
Oh , it is very well .
But I will not forget -- my father and brother will not forget .
They will make you sorry to some purpose ! ''
She turned , and stalked away to her canoe .
He waited under the pines until she crossed the river ; then he , too , went miserably home .
What a mess he had contrived to make of things !
Poor Tannis !
How handsome she had looked in her fury -- and how much like a squaw !
The racial marks always come out plainly under the stress of emotion , as Tom noted later .
Her threat did not disturb him .
If young Paul and old Auguste made things unpleasant for him , he thought himself more than a match for them .
It was the thought of the suffering he had brought upon Tannis that worried him .
He had not , to be sure , been a villain ; but he had been a fool , and that is almost as bad , under some circumstances .
The Dumonts , however , did not trouble him .
After all , Tannis ' four years in Prince Albert had not been altogether wasted .
She knew that white girls did not mix their male relatives up in a vendetta when a man ceased calling on them -- and she had nothing else to complain of that could be put in words .
After some reflection she concluded to hold her tongue .
She even laughed when old Auguste asked her what was up between her and her fellow , and said she had grown tired of him .
Old Auguste shrugged his shoulders resignedly .
It was just as well , maybe .
Those English sons-in-law sometimes gave themselves too many airs .
So Carey rode often to town and Tannis bided her time , and plotted futile schemes of revenge , and Lazarre Merimee scowled and got drunk -- and life went on at the Flats as usual , until the last week in October , when a big wind and rainstorm swept over the northland .
It was a bad night .
The wires were down between the Flats and Prince Albert and all communication with the outside world was cut off .
Over at Joe Esquint's the breeds were having a carouse in honor of Joe's birthday .
Paul Dumont had gone over , and Carey was alone in the office , smoking lazily and dreaming of Elinor .
Suddenly , above the plash of rain and whistle of wind , he heard outcries in the street .
Running to the door he was met by Mrs. Joe Esquint , who grasped him breathlessly .
`` Meestair Carey -- come quick !
Lazarre , he kill Paul -- they fight ! ''
Carey , with a smothered oath , rushed across the street .
He had been afraid of something of the sort , and had advised Paul not to go , for those half-breed carouses almost always ended in a free fight .
He burst into the kitchen at Joe Esquint's , to find a circle of mute spectators ranged around the room and Paul and Lazarre in a clinch in the center .
Carey was relieved to find it was only an affair of fists .
He promptly hurled himself at the combatants and dragged Paul away , while Mrs. Joe Esquint -- Joe himself being dead-drunk in a corner -- flung her fat arms about Lazarre and held him back .
`` Stop this , '' said Carey sternly .
`` Let me get at him , '' foamed Paul .
`` He insulted my sister .
He said that you -- let me get at him ! ''
He could not writhe free from Carey's iron grip .
Lazarre , with a snarl like a wolf , sent Mrs. Joe spinning , and rushed at Paul .
Carey struck out as best he could , and Lazarre went reeling back against the table .
It went over with a crash and the light went out !
Mrs. Joe's shrieks might have brought the roof down .
In the confusion that ensued , two pistol shots rang out sharply .
There was a cry , a groan , a fall -- then a rush for the door .
When Mrs. Joe Esquint's sister-in-law , Marie , dashed in with another lamp , Mrs. Joe was still shrieking , Paul Dumont was leaning sickly against the wall with a dangling arm , and Carey lay face downward on the floor , with blood trickling from under him .
Marie Esquint was a woman of nerve .
She told Mrs. Joe to shut up , and she turned Carey over .
He was conscious , but seemed dazed and could not help himself .
Marie put a coat under his head , told Paul to lie down on the bench , ordered Mrs. Joe to get a bed ready , and went for the doctor .
It happened that there was a doctor at the Flats that night -- a Prince Albert man who had been up at the Reservation , fixing up some sick Indians , and had been stormstaid at old Auguste's on his way back .
Marie soon returned with the doctor , old Auguste , and Tannis .
Carey was carried in and laid on Mrs. Esquint's bed .
The doctor made a brief examination , while Mrs. Joe sat on the floor and howled at the top of her lungs .
Then he shook his head .
`` Shot in the back , '' he said briefly .
`` How long ? ''
asked Carey , understanding .
`` Perhaps till morning , '' answered the doctor .
Mrs. Joe gave a louder howl than ever at this , and Tannis came and stood by the bed .
The doctor , knowing that he could do nothing for Carey , hurried into the kitchen to attend to Paul , who had a badly shattered arm , and Marie went with him .
Carey looked stupidly at Tannis .
`` Send for her , '' he said .
Tannis smiled cruelly .
`` There is no way .
The wires are down , and there is no man at the Flats who will go to town to-night , '' she answered .
`` My God , I MUST see her before I die , '' burst out Carey pleadingly .
`` Where is Father Gabriel ?
HE will go . ''
`` The priest went to town last night and has not come back , '' said Tannis .
Carey groaned and shut his eyes .
If Father Gabriel was away , there was indeed no one to go .
Old Auguste and the doctor could not leave Paul and he knew well that no breed of them all at the Flats would turn out on such a night , even if they were not , one and all , mortally scared of being mixed up in the law and justice that would be sure to follow the affair .
He must die without seeing Elinor .
Tannis looked inscrutably down on the pale face on Mrs. Joe Esquint's dirty pillows .
Her immobile features gave no sign of the conflict raging within her .
After a short space she turned and went out , shutting the door softly on the wounded man and Mrs. Joe , whose howls had now simmered down to whines .
In the next room , Paul was crying out with pain as the doctor worked on his arm , but Tannis did not go to him .
Instead , she slipped out and hurried down the stormy street to old Auguste's stable .
Five minutes later she was galloping down the black , wind-lashed river trail , on her way to town , to bring Elinor Blair to her lover's deathbed .
I hold that no woman ever did anything more unselfish than this deed of Tannis !
For the sake of love she put under her feet the jealousy and hatred that had clamored at her heart .
She held , not only revenge , but the dearer joy of watching by Carey to the last , in the hollow of her hand , and she cast both away that the man she loved might draw his dying breath somewhat easier .
In a white woman the deed would have been merely commendable .
In Tannis of the Flats , with her ancestry and tradition , it was lofty self-sacrifice .
It was eight o'clock when Tannis left the Flats ; it was ten when she drew bridle before the house on the bluff .
Elinor was regaling Tom and his wife with Avonlea gossip when the maid came to the door .
`` Pleas 'm , there's a breed girl out on the verandah and she's asking for Miss Blair . ''
Elinor went out wonderingly , followed by Tom .
Tannis , whip in hand , stood by the open door , with the stormy night behind her , and the warm ruby light of the hall lamp showering over her white face and the long rope of drenched hair that fell from her bare head .
She looked wild enough .
`` Jerome Carey was shot in a quarrel at Joe Esquint's to-night , '' she said .
`` He is dying -- he wants you -- I have come for you . ''
Elinor gave a little cry , and steadied herself on Tom's shoulder .
Tom said he knew he made some exclamation of horror .
He had never approved of Carey's attentions to Elinor , but such news was enough to shock anybody .
He was determined , however , that Elinor should not go out in such a night and to such a scene , and told Tannis so in no uncertain terms .
`` I came through the storm , '' said Tannis , contemptuously .
`` Can not she do as much for him as I can ? ''
The good , old Island blood in Elinor's veins showed to some purpose .
`` Yes , '' she answered firmly .
`` No , Tom , don't object -- I must go .
Get my horse -- and your own . ''
Ten minutes later three riders galloped down the bluff road and took the river trail .
Fortunately the wind was at their backs and the worst of the storm was over .
Still , it was a wild , black ride enough .
Tom rode , cursing softly under his breath .
He did not like the whole thing -- Carey done to death in some low half-breed shack , this handsome , sullen girl coming as his messenger , this nightmare ride , through wind and rain .
It all savored too much of melodrama , even for the Northland , where people still did things in a primitive way .
He heartily wished Elinor had never left Avonlea .
It was past twelve when they reached the Flats .
Tannis was the only one who seemed to be able to think coherently .
It was she who told Tom where to take the horses and then led Elinor to the room where Carey was dying .
The doctor was sitting by the bedside and Mrs. Joe was curled up in a corner , sniffling to herself .
Tannis took her by the shoulder and turned her , none too gently , out of the room .
The doctor , understanding , left at once .
As Tannis shut the door she saw Elinor sink on her knees by the bed , and Carey's trembling hand go out to her head .
Tannis sat down on the floor outside of the door and wrapped herself up in a shawl Marie Esquint had dropped .
In that attitude she looked exactly like a squaw , and all comers and goers , even old Auguste , who was hunting for her , thought she was one , and left her undisturbed .
She watched there until dawn came whitely up over the prairies and Jerome Carey died .
She knew when it happened by Elinor's cry .
Tannis sprang up and rushed in .
She was too late for even a parting look .
The girl took Carey's hand in hers , and turned to the weeping Elinor with a cold dignity .
`` Now go , '' she said .
`` You had him in life to the very last .
He is mine now . ''
`` There must be some arrangements made , '' faltered Elinor .
`` My father and brother will make all arrangements , as you call them , '' said Tannis steadily .
`` He had no near relatives in the world -- none at all in Canada -- he told me so .
You may send out a Protestant minister from town , if you like ; but he will be buried here at the Flats and his grave with be mine -- all mine !
Go ! ''
