Ted was up at five that morning , as usual .
He always had to rise early to kindle the fire and go for the cows , but on this particular morning there was no `` had to '' about it .
He had awakened at four o'clock and had sprung eagerly to the little garret window facing the east , to see what sort of a day was being born .
Thrilling with excitement , he saw that it was going to be a glorious day .
The sky was all rosy and golden and clear beyond the sharp-pointed , dark firs on Lee's Hill .
Out to the north the sea was shimmering and sparkling gaily , with little foam crests here and there ruffled up by the cool morning breeze .
Oh , it would be a splendid day !
And he , Ted Melvin , was to have a half holiday for the first time since he had come to live in Brookdale four years ago -- a whole afternoon off to go to the Sunday School picnic at the beach beyond the big hotel .
It almost seemed too good to be true !
The Jacksons , with whom he had lived ever since his mother had died , did not think holidays were necessities for boys .
Hard work and cast-off clothes , and three grudgingly allowed months of school in the winter , made up Ted's life year in and year out -- his outer life at least .
He had an inner life of dreams , but nobody knew or suspected anything about that .
To everybody in Brookdale he was simply Ted Melvin , a shy , odd-looking little fellow with big dreamy black eyes and a head of thick tangled curls which could never be made to look tidy and always annoyed Mrs. Jackson exceedingly .
It was as yet too early to light the fire or go for the cows .
Ted crept softly to a corner in the garret and took from the wall an old brown fiddle .
It had been his father's .
He loved to play on it , and his few rare spare moments were always spent in the garret corner or the hayloft , with his precious fiddle .
It was his one link with the old life he had lived in a little cottage far away , with a mother who had loved him and a merry young father who had made wonderful music on the old brown violin .
Ted pushed open his garret window and , seating himself on the sill , began to play , with his eyes fixed on the glowing eastern sky .
He played very softly , since Mrs. Jackson had a pronounced dislike to being wakened by `` fiddling at all unearthly hours . ''
The music he made was beautiful and would have astonished anybody who knew enough to know how wonderful it really was .
But there was nobody to hear this little neglected urchin of all work , and he fiddled away happily , the music floating out of the garret window , over the treetops and the dew-wet clover fields , until it mingled with the winds and was lost in the silver skies of the morning .
Ted worked doubly hard all that forenoon , since there was a double share of work to do if , as Mrs. Jackson said , he was to be gadding to picnics in the afternoon .
But he did it all cheerily and whistled for joy as he worked .
After dinner Mrs. Ross came in .
Mrs. Ross lived down on the shore road and made a living for herself and her two children by washing and doing days ' work out .
She was not a very cheerful person and generally spoke as if on the point of bursting into tears .
She looked more doleful than ever today , and lost no time in explaining why .
`` I've just got word that my sister over at White Sands is sick with pendikis '' -- this was the nearest Mrs. Ross could get to appendicitis -- `` and has to go to the hospital .
I've got to go right over and see her , Mrs. Jackson , and I've run in to ask if Ted can go and stay with Jimmy till I get back .
There's no one else I can get , and Amelia is away .
I'll be back this evening .
I don't like leaving Jimmy alone . ''
`` Ted's been promised that he could go to the picnic this afternoon , '' said Mrs. Jackson shortly .
`` Mr. Jackson said he could go , so he'll have to please himself .
If he's willing to stay with Jimmy instead , he can .
I don't care . ''
`` Oh , I've got to go to the picnic , '' cried Ted impulsively .
`` I 'm awful sorry for Jimmy -- but I must go to the picnic . ''
`` I s ` pose you feel so , '' said Mrs. Ross , sighing heavily .
`` I dunno's I blame you .
Picnics is more cheerful than staying with a poor little lame boy , I don't doubt .
Well , I s ` pose I can put Jimmy's supper on the table clost to him , and shut the cat in with him , and mebbe he'll worry through .
He was counting on having you to fiddle for him , though .
Jimmy's crazy about music , and he don't never hear much of it .
Speaking of fiddling , there's a great fiddler stopping at the hotel now .
His name is Blair Milford , and he makes his living fiddling at concerts .
I knew him well when he was a child -- I was nurse in his father's family .
He was a taking little chap , and I was real fond of him .
Well , I must be getting .
Jimmy'll feel bad at staying alone , but I'll tell him he'll just have to put up with it . ''
Mrs. Ross sighed herself away , and Ted flew up to his garret corner with a choking in his throat .
He couldn't go to stay with Jimmy -- he couldn't give up the picnic !
Why , he had never been at a picnic ; and they were going to drive to the hotel beach in wagons , and have swings , and games , and ice cream , and a boat sail to Curtain Island !
He had been looking forward to it , waking and dreaming , for a fortnight .
He must go .
But poor little Jimmy !
It was too bad for him to be left all alone .
`` I wouldn't like it myself , '' said Ted miserably , trying to swallow a lump that persisted in coming up in his throat .
`` It must be dreadful to have to lie on the sofa all the time and never be able to run , climb trees or play , or do a single thing .
And Jimmy doesn't like reading much .
He'll be dreadful lonesome .
I'll be thinking of him all the time at the picnic -- I know I will .
I suppose I could go and stay with him , if I just made up my mind to it . ''
Making up his mind to it was a slow and difficult process .
But when Ted was finally dressed in his shabby , `` skimpy '' Sunday best , he tucked his precious fiddle under his arm and slipped downstairs .
`` Please , I think I'll go and stay with Jimmy , '' he said to Mrs. Jackson timidly , as he always spoke to her .
`` Well , if you 're to waste the afternoon , I s ` pose it's better to waste it that way than in going to a picnic and eating yourself sick , '' was Mrs. Jackson's ungracious response .
Ted reached Mrs. Ross's little house just as that good lady was locking the door on Jimmy and the cat .
`` Well , I 'm real glad , '' she said , when Ted told her he had come to stay .
`` I 'd have worried most awful if I 'd had to leave Jimmy all alone .
He's crying in there this minute .
Come now , Jimmy , dry up .
Here's Ted come to stop with you after all , and he's brought his fiddle , too . ''
Jimmy's tears were soon dried , and he welcomed Ted joyfully .
`` I've been thinking awful long to hear you fiddling , '' said Jimmy , with a sigh of content .
`` Seems like the ache ain't never half so bad when I 'm listening to music -- and when it's your music , I forget there's any ache at all . ''
Ted took his violin and began to play .
After all , it was almost as good as a picnic to have a whole afternoon for his music .
The stuffy little room , with its dingy plaster and shabby furniture , was filled with wonderful harmonies .
Once he began , Ted could play for hours at a stretch and never be conscious of fatigue .
Jimmy lay and listened in rapturous content while Ted's violin sang and laughed and dreamed and rippled .
There was another listener besides Jimmy .
Outside , on the red sandstone doorstep , a man was sitting -- a tall , well-dressed man with a pale , beautiful face and long , supple white hands .
Motionless , he sat there and listened to the music until at last it stopped .
Then he rose and knocked at the door .
Ted , violin in hand , opened it .
An expression of amazement flashed into the stranger's face , but he only said , `` Is Mrs. Ross at home ? ''
`` No , sir , '' said Ted shyly .
`` She went over to White Sands and she won't be back till night .
But Jimmy is here -- Jimmy is her little boy .
Will you come in ? ''
`` I 'm sorry Mrs. Ross is away , '' said the stranger , entering .
`` She was an old nurse of mine .
I must confess I've been sitting on the step out there for some time , listening to your music .
Who taught you to play , my boy ? ''
`` Nobody , '' said Ted simply .
`` I've always been able to play . ''
`` He makes it up himself out of his own head , sir , '' said Jimmy eagerly .
`` No , I don't make it -- it makes itself -- it just comes , '' said Ted , a dreamy gaze coming into his big black eyes .
The caller looked at him closely .
`` I know a little about music myself , '' he said .
`` My name is Blair Milford and I am a professional violinist .
Your playing is wonderful .
What is your name ? ''
`` Ted Melvin . ''
`` Well , Ted , I think that you have a great talent , and it ought to be cultivated .
You should have competent instruction .
Come , you must tell me all about yourself . ''
Ted told what little he thought there was to tell .
Blair Milford listened and nodded , guessing much that Ted didn't tell and , indeed , didn't know himself .
Then he made Ted play for him again .
`` Amazing ! ''
he said softly , under his breath .
Finally he took the violin and played himself .
Ted and Jimmy listened breathlessly .
`` Oh , if I could only play like that ! ''
said Ted wistfully .
Blair Milford smiled .
`` You will play much better some day if you get the proper training , '' he said .
`` You have a wonderful talent , my boy , and you should have it cultivated .
It will never in the world do to waste such genius .
Yes , that is the right word , '' he went on musingly , as if talking to himself , '' ` genius . '
Nature is always taking us by surprise .
This child has what I have never had and would make any sacrifice for .
And yet in him it may come to naught for lack of opportunity .
But it must not , Ted .
You must have a musical training . ''
`` I can't take lessons , if that is what you mean , sir , '' said Ted wonderingly .
`` Mr. Jackson wouldn't pay for them . ''
`` I think we needn't worry about the question of payment if you can find time to practise , '' said Blair Milford .
`` I am to be at the beach for two months yet .
For once I'll take a music pupil .
But will you have time to practise ? ''
`` Yes , sir , I'll make time , '' said Ted , as soon as he could speak at all for the wonder of it .
`` I'll get up at four in the morning and have an hour's practising before the time for the cows .
But I 'm afraid it'll be too much trouble for you , sir , I 'm afraid -- '' Blair Milford laughed and put his slim white hand on Ted's curly head .
`` It isn't much trouble to train an artist .
It is a privilege .
Ah , Ted , you have what I once hoped I had , what I know now I never can have .
You don't understand me .
You will some day . ''
`` Ain't he an awful nice man ? ''
said Jimmy , when Blair Milford had gone .
`` But what did he mean by all that talk ? ''
`` I don't know exactly , '' said Ted dreamily .
`` That is , I seem to feel what he meant but I can't quite put it into words .
But , oh , Jimmy , I 'm so happy .
I 'm to have lessons -- I have always longed to have them . ''
`` I guess you 're glad you didn't go to the picnic ? ''
said Jimmy .
`` Yes , but I was glad before , Jimmy , honest I was . ''
Blair Milford kept his promise .
He interviewed Mr. and Mrs. Jackson and , by means best known to himself , induced them to consent that Ted should take music lessons every Saturday afternoon .
He was a pupil to delight a teacher's heart and , after every lesson , Blair Milford looked at him with kindly eyes and murmured , `` Amazing , '' under his breath .
Finally he went again to the Jacksons , and the next day he said to Ted , `` Ted , would you like to come away with me -- live with me -- be my boy and have your gift for music thoroughly cultivated ? ''
`` What do you mean , sir ? ''
said Ted tremblingly .
`` I mean that I want you -- that I must have you , Ted .
I've talked to Mr. Jackson , and he has consented to let you come .
You shall be educated , you shall have the best masters in your art that the world affords , you shall have the career I once dreamed of .
Will you come , Ted ? ''
Ted drew a long breath .
`` Yes , sir , '' he said .
`` But it isn't so much because of the music -- it's because I love you , Mr. Milford , and I 'm so glad I 'm to be always with you . ''
