`` I declare , it is a real fall day , '' said Mrs. Stapp , dropping into a chair with a sigh of relief as Mrs. March ushered her into the cosy little sitting-room .
`` The wind would chill the marrow in your bones ; winter'll be here before you know it . ''
`` That's so , '' assented Mrs. March , bustling about to stir up the fire .
`` But I don't know as I mind it at all .
Winter is real pleasant when it does come , but I must say , I don't fancy these betwixt-and-between days much .
Sit up to the fire , Theodosia .
You look real blue . ''
`` I feel so too .
Lawful heart , but this is comfort .
This chimney-corner of yours , Anna , is the cosiest spot in the world . ''
`` When did you get home from Maitland ? ''
asked Mrs. March .
`` Did you have a pleasant time ?
And how did you leave Emily and the children ? ''
Mrs. Stapp took this trio of interrogations in calm detail .
`` I came home Saturday , '' she said , as she unrolled her knitting .
`` Nice wet day it was too !
And as for my visit , yes , I enjoyed myself pretty , well , not but what I worried over Peter's rheumatism a good deal .
Emily is well , and the children ought to be , for such rampageous young ones I never saw !
Emily can't do no more with them than an old hen with a brood of ducks .
But , lawful heart , Anna , don't mind about my little affairs !
The news Peter had for me about you when I got home fairly took my breath .
He came down to the garden gate to shout it before I was out of the wagon .
I couldn't believe but what he was joking at first .
You should have seen Peter .
He had an old red shawl tied round his rheumatic shoulder , and he was waving his arms like a crazy man .
I declare , I thought the chimney was afire !
Theodosia , Theodosia ! '
he shouted .
` Anna March has had a fortune left her by her brother in Australy , and she's bought the old Carroll place , and is going to move up there ! '
That was his salute when I got home .
I 'd have been over before this to hear all about it , but things were at such sixes and sevens in the house that I couldn't go visiting until I 'd straightened them out a bit .
Peter's real neat , as men go , but , lawful heart , such a mess as he makes of housekeeping !
I didn't know you had a brother living . ''
`` No more did I , Theodosia .
I thought , as everyone else did , that poor Charles was at the bottom of the sea forty years ago .
It's that long since he ran away from home .
He had a quarrel with Father , and he was always dreadful high-spirited .
He went to sea , and we heard that he had sailed for England in the Helen Ray .
She was never heard of after , and we all supposed that my poor brother had perished with her .
And four weeks ago I got a letter from a firm of lawyers in Melbourne , Australia , saying that my brother , Charles Bennett , had died and left all his fortune to me .
I couldn't believe it at first , but they sent me some things of his that he had when he left home , and there was an old picture of myself among them with my name written on it in my own hand , so then I knew there was no mistake .
But whether Charles did sail in the Helen Ray , or if he did , how he escaped from her and got to Australia , I don't know , and it isn't likely I ever will . ''
`` Well , of all wonderful things ! ''
commented Mrs. Stapp .
`` I was glad to hear that I was heir to so much money , '' said Mrs. March firmly .
`` At first I felt as if it were awful of me to be glad when it came to me by my brother's death .
But I mourned for poor Charles forty years ago , and I can't sense that he has only just died .
Not but what I 'd rather have seen him come home alive than have all the money in the world , but it has come about otherwise , and as the money is lawfully mine , I may as well feel pleased about it . ''
`` And you've bought the Carroll place , '' said Mrs. Stapp , with the freedom of a privileged friend .
`` Whatever made you do it ?
I 'm sure you are as cosy here as need be , and nobody but yourself .
Isn't this house big enough for you ? ''
`` No , it isn't .
All my life I've been hankering for a good , big , roomy house , and all my life I've had to put up with little boxes of places , not big enough to turn round in .
I've been contented , and made the best of what I had , but now that I can afford it , I mean to have a house that will suit me .
The Carroll house is just what I want , for all it is a little old-fashioned .
I've always had a notion of that house , although I never expected to own it any more than the moon . ''
`` It's a real handsome place , '' admitted Mrs. Stapp , `` but I expect it will need a lot of fixing up .
Nobody has lived in it for six years .
When are you going to move in ? ''
`` In about three weeks , if all goes well .
I 'm having it all painted and done over inside .
The outside can wait until the spring . ''
`` It's queer how things come about , '' said Mrs. Stapp meditatively .
`` I guess old Mrs. Carroll never imagined her home was going to pass into other folks ' hands as it has .
When you and I were girls , and Louise Carroll was giving herself such airs over us , you didn't much expect to ever stand in her shoes , did you ?
Do you remember Lou ? ''
`` Yes , I do , '' said Mrs. March sharply .
A change came over her sonsy , smiling face .
It actually looked hard and revengeful , and a cruel light flickered in her dark brown eyes .
`` I'll not forget Lou Carroll as long as I live .
She is the only person in this world I ever hated .
I suppose it is sinful to say it , but I hate her still , and always will . ''
`` I never liked her myself , '' admitted Mrs. Stapp .
`` She thought herself above us all .
Well , for that matter I suppose she was -- but she needn't have rubbed it in so . ''
`` Well , she might have been above me , '' said Mrs. March bitterly , `` but she wasn't above twitting and snubbing me every chance she got .
She always had a spite at me from the time we were children together at school .
When we grew up it was worse .
I couldn't begin to tell you all the times that girl insulted me .
But there was once in particular -- I'll never forgive her for it .
I was at a party , and she was there too , and so was that young Trenham Manning , who was visiting the Ashleys .
Do you remember him , Dosia ?
He was a handsome young fellow , and Lou had a liking for him , so all the girls said .
But he never looked at her that night , and he kept by me the whole time .
It made Lou furious , and at last she came up to me with a sneer on her face , and her black eyes just snapping , and said , ` Miss Bennett , Mother told me to tell you to tell your ma that if that plain sewing isn't done by tomorrow night she'll send for it and give it to somebody else ; if people engage to have work done by a certain time and don't keep their word , they needn't expect to get it . '
Oh , how badly I felt !
Mother and I were poor , and had to work hard , but we had feelings just like other people , and to be insulted like that before Trenham Manning !
I just burst out crying then and there , and ran away and hid .
It was very silly of me , but I couldn't help it .
That stings me yet .
If I was ever to get a chance to pay Lou Carroll out for that , I 'd take it without any compunction . ''
`` Oh , but that is unchristian ! ''
protested Mrs. Stapp feebly .
`` Perhaps so , but it's the way I feel .
Old Parson Jones used to say that people were marbled good and bad pretty even , but that in everybody there were one or two streaks just pure wicked .
I guess Lou Carroll is my wicked streak .
I haven't seen or heard of her for years -- ever since she married that worthless Dency Baxter and went away .
She may be dead for all I know .
I don't expect ever to have a chance to pay her out .
But mark what I say , Theodosia , if I ever have , I will . ''
Mrs. March snipped off her thread , as if she challenged the world .
Mrs. Stapp felt uncomfortable over the unusual display of feeling she had evoked , and hastened to change the subject .
In three weeks ' time Mrs. March was established in her new home , and the `` old Carroll house '' blossomed out into renewed splendour .
Theodosia Stapp , who had dropped in to see it , was in a rapture of admiration .
`` You have a lovely home now , Anna .
I used to think it fine enough in the Carrolls ' time , but it wasn't as grand as this .
And that reminds me , I have something to tell you , but I don't want you to get as excited as you did the last time I mentioned her name .
You remember the last day I was to see you we were talking of Lou Carroll ?
Well , next day I was downtown in a store , and who should sail in but Mrs. Joel Kent , from Oriental .
You know Mrs. Joel -- Sarah Chapple that was ?
She and her man keep a little hotel up at Oriental .
They 're not very well off .
She is a cousin of old Mrs. Carroll , but , lawful heart , the Carrolls didn't used to make much of the relationship !
Well , Mrs. Joel and I had a chat .
She told me all her troubles -- she always has lots of them .
Sarah was always of a grumbling turn , and she had a brand-new stock of them this time .
What do you think , Anna March ?
Lou Carroll -- or Mrs. Baxter , I suppose I should say -- is up there at Joel Kent's at Oriental , dying of consumption ; leastwise , Mrs. Joel says she is . ''
`` Lou Carroll dying at Oriental ! ''
cried Mrs. March .
`` Yes .
She came there from goodness knows where , about a month ago -- might as well have dropped from the clouds , Mrs. Joel says , for all she expected of it .
Her husband is dead , and I guess he led her a life of it when he was alive , and she's as poor as second skimmings .
She was aiming to come here , Mrs. Joel says , but when she got to Oriental she wasn't fit to stir a step further , and the Kents had to keep her .
I gather from what Mrs. Joel said that she's rather touched in her mind too , and has an awful hankering to get home here -- to this very house .
She appears to have the idea that it is hers , and all just the same as it used to be .
I guess she is a sight of trouble , and Mrs. Joel ain't the woman to like that .
But there !
She has to work most awful hard , and I suppose a sick person doesn't come handy in a hotel .
I guess you've got your revenge , Anna , without lifting a finger to get it .
Think of Lou Carroll coming to that ! ''
The next day was cold and raw .
The ragged , bare trees in the old Carroll grounds shook and writhed in the gusts of wind .
Now and then a drifting scud of rain dashed across the windows .
Mrs. March looked out with a shiver , and turned thankfully to her own cosy fireside again .
Presently she thought she heard a low knock at the front door , and went to see .
As she opened it a savage swirl of damp wind rushed in , and the shrinking figure leaning against one of the fluted columns of the Grecian porch seemed to cower before its fury .
It was a woman who stood there , a woman whose emaciated face wore a piteous expression , as she lifted it to Mrs. March .
`` You don't know me , of course , '' she said , with a feeble attempt at dignity .
`` I am Mrs. Baxter .
I -- I used to live here long ago .
I thought I 'd walk over today and see my old home . ''
A fit of coughing interrupted her words , and she trembled like a leaf .
`` Gracious me ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. March blankly .
`` You don't mean to tell me that you have walked over from Oriental today -- and you a sick woman !
For pity's sake , come in , quick .
And if you 're not wet to the skin ! ''
She fairly pulled her visitor into the hall , and led her to the sitting-room .
`` Sit down .
Take this big easy-chair right up to the fire -- so .
Let me take your bonnet and shawl .
I must run right out to tell Hannah to get you a hot drink . ''
`` You are very kind , '' whispered the other .
`` I don't know you , but you look like a woman I used to know when I was a girl .
She was a Mrs. Bennett , and she had a daughter , Anna .
Do you know what became of her ?
I forget .
I forget everything now . ''
`` My name is March , '' said Mrs. March briefly , ignoring the question .
`` I don't suppose you ever heard it before . ''
She wrapped her own warm shawl about the other woman's thin shoulders .
Then she hastened to the kitchen and soon returned , carrying a tray of food and a steaming hot drink .
She wheeled a small table up to her visitor's side and said , very kindly , `` Now , take a bite , my dear , and this raspberry vinegar will warm you right up .
It is a dreadful day for you to be out .
Why on earth didn't Joel Kent drive you over ? ''
`` They didn't know I was coming , '' whispered Mrs. Baxter anxiously .
`` I -- I ran away .
Sarah wouldn't have let me come if she had known .
But I wanted to come so much .
It is so nice to be home again . ''
Mrs. March watched her guest as she ate and drank .
It was plain enough that her mind , or rather her memory , was affected .
She did not realize that this was no longer her home .
At moments she seemed to fancy herself back in the past again .
Once or twice she called Mrs. March `` Mother . ''
Presently a sharp knock was heard at the hall door .
Mrs. March excused herself and went out .
In the porch stood Theodosia Stapp and a woman whom Mrs. March did not at first glance recognize -- a tall , aggressive-looking person , whose sharp black eyes darted in past Mrs. March and searched every corner of the hall before anyone had time to speak .
`` Lawful heart ! ''
puffed Mrs. Stapp , as she stepped in out of the biting wind .
`` I 'm right out of breath .
Mrs. March , allow me to introduce Mrs. Kent .
We 're looking for Mrs. Baxter .
She has run away , and we thought perhaps she came here .
Did she ? ''
`` She is in my sitting-room now , '' said Mrs. March quietly .
`` Didn't I say so ? ''
demanded Mrs. Kent , turning to Mrs. Stapp .
She spoke in a sharp , high-pitched tone that grated on Mrs. March's nerves .
`` Doesn't she beat all !
She slipped away this morning when I was busy in the kitchen .
And to think of her walking six miles over here in this wind !
I dunno how she did it .
I don't believe she's half as sick as she pretends .
Well , I've got my wagon out here , Mrs. March , and I'll be much obliged if you'll tell her I 'm here to take her home .
I s ` pose we'll have a fearful scene . ''
`` I don't see that there is any call for a scene , '' said Mrs. March firmly .
`` The poor woman has just got here , and she thinks she has got home .
She might as well think so if it is of any comfort to her .
You 'd better leave her here . ''
Theodosia gave a stifled gasp of amazement , but Mrs. March went serenely on .
`` I'll take care of the poor soul as long as she needs it -- and that will not be very long in my opinion , for if ever I saw death in a woman's face , it is looking out of hers .
I've plenty of time to look after her and make her comfortable . ''
Mrs. Joel Kent was voluble in her thanks .
It was evident that she was delighted to get the sick woman off her hands .
Mrs. March cut her short with an invitation to stay to tea , but Mrs. Kent declined .
`` I've got to hurry home straight off and get the men's suppers .
Such a scamper to have over that woman !
I 'm sure I 'm thankful you 're willing to let her stay , for she 'd never be contented anywhere else .
I'll send over what few things she has tomorrow . ''
When Mrs. Kent had gone , Mrs. March and Mrs. Stapp looked at each other .
`` And so this is your revenge , Anna March ? ''
said the latter solemnly .
`` Do you remember what you said to me about her ? ''
`` Yes , I do , Theodosia , and I thought I meant every word of it .
But I guess my wicked streak ran out just when I needed it to depend on .
Besides , you see , I've thought of Lou Carroll all these years as she was when I knew her -- handsome and saucy and proud .
But that poor creature in there isn't any more like the Lou Carroll I knew than you are -- not a mite .
The old Lou Carroll is dead already , and my spite is dead with her .
Will you come in and see her ? ''
`` Well , no , not just now .
She wouldn't know me , and Mrs. Joel says strangers kind of excite her -- a pretty bad place the hotel would be for her at that rate , I should think .
I must go and tell Peter about it , and I'll send up some of my black currant jam for her . ''
When Mrs. Stapp had gone , Mrs. March went back to her guest .
Lou Baxter had fallen asleep with her head pillowed on the soft plush back of her chair .
Mrs. March looked at the hollow , hectic cheeks and the changed , wasted features , and her bright brown eyes softened with tears .
`` Poor Lou , '' she said softly , as she brushed a loose lock of grey hair back from the sleeping woman's brow .
