Ruggles and I were down on the Old Fellow .
It doesn't matter why and , since in a story of this kind we must tell the truth no matter what happens -- or else where is the use of writing a story at all ?
-- I'll have to confess that we had deserved all we got and that the Old Fellow did no more than his duty by us .
Both Ruggles and I see that now , since we have had time to cool off , but at the moment we were in a fearful wax at the Old Fellow and were bound to hatch up something to get even with him .
Of course , the Old Fellow had another name , just as Ruggles has another name .
He is principal of the Frampton Academy -- the Old Fellow , not Ruggles -- and his name is George Osborne .
We have to call him Mr. Osborne to his face , but he is the Old Fellow everywhere else .
He is quite old -- thirty-six if he's a day , and whatever possessed Sylvia Grant -- but there , I 'm getting ahead of my story .
Most of the Cads like the Old Fellow .
Even Ruggles and I like him on the average .
The girls are always a little provoked at him because he is so shy and absent-minded , but when it comes to the point , they like him too .
I heard Emma White say once that he was `` so handsome '' ; I nearly whooped .
Ruggles was mad because he's gone on Em .
For the idea of calling a thin , pale , dark , dreamy-looking chap like the Old Fellow `` handsome '' was more than I could stand without guffawing .
Em probably said it to provoke Ruggles ; she couldn't really have thought it .
`` Micky , '' the English professor , now -- if she had called him handsome there would have been some sense in it .
He is splendid : big six-footer with magnificent muscles , red cheeks , and curly yellow hair .
I can't see how he can be contented to sit down and teach mushy English literature and poetry and that sort of thing .
It would have been more in keeping with the Old Fellow .
There was a rumour running at large in the Academy that the Old Fellow wrote poetry , but he ran the mathematics and didn't make such a foozle of it as you might suppose , either .
Ruggles and I meant to get square with the Old Fellow , if it took all the term ; at least , we said so .
But if Providence hadn't sent Sylvia Grant walking down the street past our boarding house that afternoon , we should probably have cooled off before we thought of any working plan of revenge .
Sylvia Grant did go down the street , however .
Ruggles , hanging halfway out of the window as usual , saw her , and called me to go and look .
Of course I went .
Sylvia Grant was always worth looking at .
There was no girl in Frampton who could hold a candle to her when it came to beauty .
As for brains , that is another thing altogether .
My private opinion is that Sylvia hadn't any , or she would never have preferred -- but there , I 'm getting on too fast again .
Ruggles should have written this story ; he can concentrate better .
Sylvia was the Latin professor's daughter ; she wasn't a Cad girl , of course .
She was over twenty and had graduated from it two years ago , but she was in all the social things that went on in the Academy ; and all the unmarried professors , except the Old Fellow , were in love with her .
Micky had it the worst , and we had all made up our minds that Sylvia would marry Micky .
He was so handsome , we didn't see how she could help it .
I tell you , they made a dandy-looking couple when they were together .
Well , as I said before , I toddled to the window to have a look at the fair Sylvia .
She was all togged out in some new fall duds , and I guess she 'd come out to show them off .
They were brownish , kind of , and she 'd a spanking hat on with feathers and things in it .
Her hair was shining under it , all purply-black , and she looked sweet enough to eat .
Then she saw Ruggles and me and she waved her hand and laughed , and her big blackish-blue eyes sparkled ; but she hadn't been laughing before , or sparkling either .
I 'd thought she looked kind of glum , and I wondered if she and Micky had had a falling out .
I rather suspected it , for at the Senior Prom , three nights before , she had hardly looked at Micky , but had sat in a corner and talked to the Old Fellow .
He didn't do much talking ; he was too shy , and he looked mighty uncomfortable .
I thought it kind of mean of Sylvia to torment him so , when she knew he hated to have to talk to girls , but when I saw Micky scowling at the corner , I knew she was doing it to make him jealous .
Girls won't stick at anything when they want to provoke a chap ; I know it to my cost , for Jennie Price -- but that has nothing to do with this story .
Just across the square Sylvia met the Old Fellow and bowed .
He lifted his hat and passed on , but after a few steps he turned and looked back ; he caught Sylvia doing the same thing , so he wheeled and came on , looking mighty foolish .
As he passed beneath our window Ruggles chuckled fiendishly .
`` I've thought of something , Polly , '' he said -- my name is Paul .
`` Bet you it will make the Old Fellow squirm .
Let's write a letter to Sylvia Grant -- a love letter -- and sign the Old Fellow's name to it .
She'll give him a fearful snubbing , and we'll be revenged . ''
`` But who'll write it ? ''
I said doubtfully .
`` I can't .
You'll have to , Ruggles .
You've had more practice . ''
Ruggles turned red .
I know he writes to Em White in vacations .
`` I'll do my best , '' he said , quite meekly .
`` That is , I'll compose it .
But you'll have to copy it .
You can imitate the Old Fellow's handwriting so well . ''
`` But look here , '' I said , an uncomfortable idea striking me , `` what about Sylvia ?
Won't she feel kind of flattish when she finds out he didn't write it ?
For of course he'll tell her .
We haven't anything against her , you know . ''
`` Oh , Sylvia won't care , '' said Ruggles serenely .
`` She's the sort of girl who can take a joke .
I've seen her eyes shine over tricks we've played on the professors before now .
She'll just laugh .
Besides , she doesn't like the Old Fellow a bit .
I know from the way she acts with him .
She's always so cool and stiff when he's about , not a bit like she is with the other professors . ''
Well , Ruggles wrote the letter .
At first he tried to pass it off on me as his own composition .
But I know a few little things , and one of them is that Ruggles couldn't have made up that letter any more than he could have written a sonnet .
I told him so , and made him own up .
He had a copy of an old letter that had been written to his sister by her young man .
I suppose Ruggles had stolen it , but there is no use inquiring too closely into these things .
Anyhow , that letter just filled the bill .
It was beautifully expressed .
Ruggles's sister's young man must have possessed lots of ability .
He was an English professor , something like Micky , so I suppose he was extra good at it .
He started in by telling her how much he loved her , and what an angel of beauty and goodness he had always thought her ; how unworthy he felt himself of her and how little hope he had that she could ever care for him ; and he wound up by imploring her to tell him if she could possibly love him a little bit and all that sort of thing .
I copied the letter out on heliotrope paper in my best imitation of the Old Fellow's handwriting and signed it , `` Yours devotedly and imploringly , George Osborne . ''
Then we mailed it that very evening .
The next evening the Cad girls gave a big reception in the Assembly Hall to an Academy alumna who was visiting the Greek professor's wife .
It was the smartest event of the term and everybody was there -- students and faculty and , of course , Sylvia Grant .
Sylvia looked stunning .
She was all in white , with a string of pearls about her pretty round throat and a couple of little pink roses in her black hair .
I never saw her so smiling and bright ; but she seemed quieter than usual , and avoided poor Micky so skilfully that it was really a pleasure to watch her .
The Old Fellow came in late , with his tie all crooked , as it always was ; I saw Sylvia blush and nudged Ruggles to look .
`` She's thinking of the letter , '' he said .
Ruggles and I never meant to listen , upon my word we didn't .
It was pure accident .
We were in behind the flags and palms in the Modern Languages Room , fixing up a plan how to get Em and Jennie off for a moonlit stroll in the grounds -- these things require diplomacy I can tell you , for there are always so many other fellows hanging about -- when in came Sylvia Grant and the Old Fellow arm in arm .
The room was quite empty , or they thought it was , and they sat down just on the other side of the flags .
They couldn't see us , but we could see them quite plainly .
Sylvia still looked smiling and happy , not a bit mad as we had expected , but just kind of shy and radiant .
As for the Old Fellow , he looked , as Em White would say , as Sphinx-like as ever .
I 'd defy any man alive to tell from the Old Fellow's expression what he was thinking about or what he felt like at any time .
Then all at once Sylvia said softly , with her eyes cast down , `` I received your letter , Mr. Osborne . ''
Any other man in the world would have jumped , or said , `` My letter !!! ''
or shown surprise in some way .
But the Old Fellow has a nerve .
He looked sideways at Sylvia for a moment and then he said kind of drily , `` Ah , did you ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Sylvia , not much above a whisper .
`` It -- it surprised me very much .
I never supposed that you -- you cared for me in that way . ''
`` Can you tell me how I could help caring ? ''
said the Old Fellow in the strangest way .
His voice actually trembled .
`` I -- I don't think I would tell you if I knew , '' said Sylvia , turning her head away .
`` You see -- I don't want you to help caring . ''
`` Sylvia ! ''
You never saw such a transformation as came over the Old Fellow .
His eyes just blazed , but his face went white .
He bent forward and took her hand .
`` Sylvia , do you mean that you -- you actually care a little for me , dearest ?
Oh , Sylvia , do you mean that ? ''
`` Of course I do , '' said Sylvia right out .
`` I've always cared -- ever since I was a little girl coming here to school and breaking my heart over mathematics , although I hated them , just to be in your class .
Why -- why -- I've treasured up old geometry exercises you wrote out for me just because you wrote them .
But I thought I could never make you care for me .
I was the happiest girl in the world when your letter came today . ''
`` Sylvia , '' said the Old Fellow , `` I've loved you for years .
But I never dreamed that you could care for me .
I thought it quite useless to tell you of my love -- before .
Will you -- can you be my wife , darling ? ''
At this point Ruggles and I differ as to what came next .
He asserts that Sylvia turned square around and kissed the Old Fellow .
But I 'm sure she just turned her face and gave him a look and then he kissed her .
Anyhow , there they both were , going on at the silliest rate about how much they loved each other and how the Old Fellow thought she loved Micky and all that sort of thing .
It was awful .
I never thought the Old Fellow or Sylvia either could be so spooney .
Ruggles and I would have given anything on earth to be out of that .
We knew we 'd no business to be there and we felt as foolish as flatfish .
It was a tremendous relief when the Old Fellow and Sylvia got up at last and trailed away , both of them looking idiotically happy .
`` Well , did you ever ? ''
said Ruggles .
It was a girl's exclamation , but nothing else would have expressed his feelings .
`` No , I never , '' I said .
`` To think that Sylvia Grant should be sweet on the Old Fellow when she could have Micky !
It passes comprehension .
Did she -- did she really promise to marry him , Ruggles ? ''
`` She did , '' said Ruggles gloomily .
`` But , I say , isn't that Old Fellow game ?
Tumbled to the trick in a jiff ; never let on but what he wrote the letter , never will let on , I bet .
Where does the joke come in , Polly , my boy ? ''
`` It's on us , '' I said , `` but nobody will know of it if we hold our tongues .
We'll have to hold them anyhow , for Sylvia's sake , since she's been goose enough to go and fall in love with the Old Fellow .
She 'd go wild if she ever found out the letter was a hoax .
We have made that match , Ruggles .
He 'd never have got up enough spunk to tell her he wanted her , and she 'd probably have married Micky out of spite . ''
`` Well , you know the Old Fellow isn't a bad sort after all , '' said Ruggles , `` and he's really awfully gone on her .
So it's all right .
Let's go and find the girls . ''
