When Sara Currie married Jack Churchill I was broken-hearted ... or believed myself to be so , which , in a boy of twenty-two , amounts to pretty much the same thing .
Not that I took the world into my confidence ; that was never the Douglas way , and I held myself in honor bound to live up to the family traditions .
I thought , then , that nobody but Sara knew ; but I dare say , now , that Jack knew it also , for I don't think Sara could have helped telling him .
If he did know , however , he did not let me see that he did , and never insulted me by any implied sympathy ; on the contrary , he asked me to be his best man .
Jack was always a thoroughbred .
I was best man .
Jack and I had always been bosom friends , and , although I had lost my sweetheart , I did not intend to lose my friend into the bargain .
Sara had made a wise choice , for Jack was twice the man I was ; he had had to work for his living , which perhaps accounts for it .
So I danced at Sara's wedding as if my heart were as light as my heels ; but , after she and Jack had settled down at Glenby I closed The Maples and went abroad ... being , as I have hinted , one of those unfortunate mortals who need consult nothing but their own whims in the matter of time and money .
I stayed away for ten years , during which The Maples was given over to moths and rust , while I enjoyed life elsewhere .
I did enjoy it hugely , but always under protest , for I felt that a broken-hearted man ought not to enjoy himself as I did .
It jarred on my sense of fitness , and I tried to moderate my zest , and think more of the past than I did .
It was no use ; the present insisted on being intrusive and pleasant ; as for the future ... well , there was no future .
Then Jack Churchill , poor fellow , died .
A year after his death , I went home and again asked Sara to marry me , as in duty bound .
Sara again declined , alleging that her heart was buried in Jack's grave , or words to that effect .
I found that it did not much matter ... of course , at thirty-two one does not take these things to heart as at twenty-two .
I had enough to occupy me in getting The Maples into working order , and beginning to educate Betty .
Betty was Sara's ten year-old daughter , and she had been thoroughly spoiled .
That is to say , she had been allowed her own way in everything and , having inherited her father's outdoor tastes , had simply run wild .
She was a thorough tomboy , a thin , scrawny little thing with a trace of Sara's beauty .
Betty took after her father's dark , tall race and , on the occasion of my first introduction to her , seemed to be all legs and neck .
There were points about her , though , which I considered promising .
She had fine , almond-shaped , hazel eyes , the smallest and most shapely hands and feet I ever saw , and two enormous braids of thick , nut-brown hair .
For Jack's sake I decided to bring his daughter up properly .
Sara couldn't do it , and didn't try .
I saw that , if somebody didn't take Betty in hand , wisely and firmly , she would certainly be ruined .
There seemed to be nobody except myself at all interested in the matter , so I determined to see what an old bachelor could do as regards bringing up a girl in the way she should go .
I might have been her father ; as it was , her father had been my best friend .
Who had a better right to watch over his daughter ?
I determined to be a father to Betty , and do all for her that the most devoted parent could do .
It was , self-evidently , my duty .
I told Sara I was going to take Betty in hand .
Sara sighed one of the plaintive little sighs which I had once thought so charming , but now , to my surprise , found faintly irritating , and said that she would be very much obliged if I would .
`` I feel that I am not able to cope with the problem of Betty's education , Stephen , '' she admitted , `` Betty is a strange child ... all Churchill .
Her poor father indulged her in everything , and she has a will of her own , I assure you .
I have really no control over her , whatever .
She does as she pleases , and is ruining her complexion by running and galloping out of doors the whole time .
Not that she had much complexion to start with .
The Churchills never had , you know . ''
... Sara cast a complacent glance at her delicately tinted reflection in the mirror ... `` I tried to make Betty wear a sunbonnet this summer , but I might as well have talked to the wind . ''
A vision of Betty in a sunbonnet presented itself to my mind , and afforded me so much amusement that I was grateful to Sara for having furnished it .
I rewarded her with a compliment .
`` It is to be regretted that Betty has not inherited her mother's charming color , '' I said , `` but we must do the best we can for her under her limitations .
She may have improved vastly by the time she has grown up .
And , at least , we must make a lady of her ; she is a most alarming tomboy at present , but there is good material to work upon ... there must be , in the Churchill and Currie blend .
But even the best material may be spoiled by unwise handling .
I think I can promise you that I will not spoil it .
I feel that Betty is my vocation ; and I shall set myself up as a rival of Wordsworth's ` nature , ' of whose methods I have always had a decided distrust , in spite of his insidious verses . ''
Sara did not understand me in the least ; but , then , she did not pretend to .
`` I confide Betty's education entirely to you , Stephen , '' she said , with another plaintive sigh .
`` I feel sure I could not put it into better hands .
You have always been a person who could be thoroughly depended on . ''
Well , that was something by way of reward for a life-long devotion .
I felt that I was satisfied with my position as unofficial advisor-in-chief to Sara and self-appointed guardian of Betty .
I also felt that , for the furtherance of the cause I had taken to heart , it was a good thing that Sara had again refused to marry me .
I had a sixth sense which informed me that a staid old family friend might succeed with Betty where a stepfather would have signally failed .
Betty's loyalty to her father's memory was passionate , and vehement ; she would view his supplanter with resentment and distrust ; but his old familiar comrade was a person to be taken to her heart .
Fortunately for the success of my enterprise , Betty liked me .
She told me this with the same engaging candor she would have used in informing me that she hated me , if she had happened to take a bias in that direction , saying frankly : `` You are one of the very nicest old folks I know , Stephen .
Yes , you are a ripping good fellow ! ''
This made my task a comparatively easy one ; I sometimes shudder to think what it might have been if Betty had not thought I was a `` ripping good fellow . ''
I should have stuck to it , because that is my way ; but Betty would have made my life a misery to me .
She had startling capacities for tormenting people when she chose to exert them ; I certainly should not have liked to be numbered among Betty's foes .
I rode over to Glenby the next morning after my paternal interview with Sara , intending to have a frank talk with Betty and lay the foundations of a good understanding on both sides .
Betty was a sharp child , with a disconcerting knack of seeing straight through grindstones ; she would certainly perceive and probably resent any underhanded management .
I thought it best to tell her plainly that I was going to look after her .
When , however , I encountered Betty , tearing madly down the beech avenue with a couple of dogs , her loosened hair streaming behind her like a banner of independence , and had lifted her , hatless and breathless , up before me on my mare , I found that Sara had saved me the trouble of an explanation .
`` Mother says you are going to take charge of my education , Stephen , '' said Betty , as soon as she could speak .
`` I 'm glad , because I think that , for an old person , you have a good deal of sense .
I suppose my education has to be seen to , some time or other , and I 'd rather you 'd do it than anybody else I know . ''
`` Thank you , Betty , '' I said gravely .
`` I hope I shall deserve your good opinion of my sense .
I shall expect you to do as I tell you , and be guided by my advice in everything . ''
`` Yes , I will , '' said Betty , `` because I 'm sure you won't tell me to do anything I 'd really hate to do .
You won't shut me up in a room and make me sew , will you ?
Because I won't do it . ''
I assured her I would not .
`` Nor send me to a boarding-school , '' pursued Betty .
`` Mother's always threatening to send me to one .
I suppose she would have done it before this , only she knew I 'd run away .
You won't send me to a boarding-school , will you , Stephen ?
Because I won't go . ''
`` No , '' I said obligingly .
`` I won't .
I should never dream of cooping a wild little thing , like you , up in a boarding-school .
You 'd fret your heart out like a caged skylark . ''
`` I know you and I are going to get along together splendidly , Stephen , '' said Betty , rubbing her brown cheek chummily against my shoulder .
`` You are so good at understanding .
Very few people are .
Even dad darling didn't understand .
He let me do just as I wanted to , just because I wanted to , not because he really understood that I couldn't be tame and play with dolls .
I hate dolls !
Real live babies are jolly ; but dogs and horses are ever so much nicer than dolls . ''
`` But you must have lessons , Betty .
I shall select your teachers and superintend your studies , and I shall expect you to do me credit along that line , as well as along all others . ''
`` I'll try , honest and true , Stephen , '' declared Betty .
And she kept her word .
At first I looked upon Betty's education as a duty ; in a very short time it had become a pleasure ... the deepest and most abiding interest of my life .
As I had premised , Betty was good material , and responded to my training with gratifying plasticity .
Day by day , week by week , month by month , her character and temperament unfolded naturally under my watchful eye .
It was like beholding the gradual development of some rare flower in one's garden .
A little checking and pruning here , a careful training of shoot and tendril there , and , lo , the reward of grace and symmetry !
Betty grew up as I would have wished Jack Churchill's girl to grow -- spirited and proud , with the fine spirit and gracious pride of pure womanhood , loyal and loving , with the loyalty and love of a frank and unspoiled nature ; true to her heart's core , hating falsehood and sham -- as crystal-clear a mirror of maidenhood as ever man looked into and saw himself reflected back in such a halo as made him ashamed of not being more worthy of it .
Betty was kind enough to say that I had taught her everything she knew .
But what had she not taught me ?
If there were a debt between us , it was on my side .
Sara was fairly well satisfied .
It was not my fault that Betty was not better looking , she said .
I had certainly done everything for her mind and character that could be done .
Sara's manner implied that these unimportant details did not count for much , balanced against the lack of a pink-and-white skin and dimpled elbows ; but she was generous enough not to blame me .
`` When Betty is twenty-five , '' I said patiently -- I had grown used to speaking patiently to Sara -- `` she will be a magnificent woman -- far handsomer than you ever were , Sara , in your pinkest and whitest prime .
Where are your eyes , my dear lady , that you can't see the promise of loveliness in Betty ? ''
`` Betty is seventeen , and she is as lanky and brown as ever she was , '' sighed Sara .
`` When I was seventeen I was the belle of the county and had had five proposals .
I don't believe the thought of a lover has ever entered Betty's head . ''
`` I hope not , '' I said shortly .
Somehow , I did not like the suggestion .
`` Betty is a child yet .
For pity's sake , Sara , don't go putting nonsensical ideas into her head . ''
`` I 'm afraid I can't , '' mourned Sara , as if it were something to be regretted .
`` You have filled it too full of books and things like that .
I've every confidence in your judgment , Stephen -- and really you've done wonders with Betty .
But don't you think you've made her rather too clever ?
Men don't like women who are too clever .
Her poor father , now -- he always said that a woman who liked books better than beaux was an unnatural creature . ''
I didn't believe Jack had ever said anything so foolish .
Sara imagined things .
But I resented the aspersion of blue-stockingness cast on Betty .
`` When the time comes for Betty to be interested in beaux , '' I said severely , `` she will probably give them all due attention .
Just at present her head is a great deal better filled with books than with silly premature fancies and sentimentalities .
I 'm a critical old fellow -- but I 'm satisfied with Betty , Sara -- perfectly satisfied . ''
Sara sighed .
`` Oh , I dare say she is all right , Stephen .
And I 'm really grateful to you .
I 'm sure I could have done nothing at all with her .
It's not your fault , of course , -- but I can't help wishing she were a little more like other girls . ''
I galloped away from Glenby in a rage .
What a blessing Sara had not married me in my absurd youth !
She would have driven me wild with her sighs and her obtuseness and her everlasting pink-and-whiteness .
But there -- there -- there -- gently !
She was a sweet , good-hearted little woman ; she had made Jack happy ; and she had contrived , heaven only knew how , to bring a rare creature like Betty into the world .
For that , much might be forgiven her .
By the time I reached The Maples and had flung myself down in an old , kinky , comfortable chair in my library I had forgiven her and was even paying her the compliment of thinking seriously over what she had said .
Was Betty really unlike other girls ?
That is to say , unlike them in any respect wherein she should resemble them ?
I did not wish this ; although I was a crusty old bachelor I approved of girls , holding them the sweetest things the good God has made .
I wanted Betty to have her full complement of girlhood in all its best and highest manifestation .
Was there anything lacking ?
I observed Betty very closely during the next week or so , riding over to Glenby every day and riding back at night , meditating upon my observations .
Eventually I concluded to do what I had never thought myself in the least likely to do .
I would send Betty to a boarding-school for a year .
It was necessary that she should learn how to live with other girls .
I went over to Glenby the next day and found Betty under the beeches on the lawn , just back from a canter .
She was sitting on the dappled mare I had given her on her last birthday , and was laughing at the antics of her rejoicing dogs around her .
I looked at her with much pleasure ; it gladdened me to see how much , nay , how totally a child she still was , despite her Churchill height .
Her hair , under her velvet cap , still hung over her shoulders in the same thick plaits ; her face had the firm leanness of early youth , but its curves were very fine and delicate .
The brown skin , that worried Sara so , was flushed through with dusky color from her gallop ; her long , dark eyes were filled with the beautiful unconsciousness of childhood .
More than all , the soul in her was still the soul of a child .
I found myself wishing that it could always remain so .
But I knew it could not ; the woman must blossom out some day ; it was my duty to see that the flower fulfilled the promise of the bud .
When I told Betty that she must go away to a school for a year , she shrugged , frowned and consented .
Betty had learned that she must consent to what I decreed , even when my decrees were opposed to her likings , as she had once fondly believed they never would be .
But Betty had acquired confidence in me to the beautiful extent of acquiescing in everything I commanded .
`` I'll go , of course , since you wish it , Stephen , '' she said .
`` But why do you want me to go ?
You must have a reason -- you always have a reason for anything you do .
What is it ? ''
`` That is for you to find out , Betty , '' I said .
`` By the time you come back you will have discovered it , I think .
If not , it will not have proved itself a good reason and shall be forgotten . ''
When Betty went away I bade her good-by without burdening her with any useless words of advice .
`` Write to me every week , and remember that you are Betty Churchill , '' I said .
Betty was standing on the steps above , among her dogs .
She came down a step and put her arms about my neck .
`` I'll remember that you are my friend and that I must live up to you , '' she said .
`` Good-by , Stephen . ''
She kissed me two or three times -- good , hearty smacks !
did I not say she was still a child ?
-- and stood waving her hand to me as I rode away .
I looked back at the end of the avenue and saw her standing there , short-skirted and hatless , fronting the lowering sun with those fearless eyes of hers .
So I looked my last on the child Betty .
That was a lonely year .
My occupation was gone and I began to fear that I had outlived my usefulness .
Life seemed flat , stale , and unprofitable .
Betty's weekly letters were all that lent it any savor .
They were spicy and piquant enough .
Betty was discovered to have unsuspected talents in the epistolary line .
At first she was dolefully homesick , and begged me to let her come home .
When I refused -- it was amazingly hard to refuse -- she sulked through three letters , then cheered up and began to enjoy herself .
But it was nearly the end of the year when she wrote : `` I've found out why you sent me here , Stephen -- and I 'm glad you did . ''
I had to be away from home on unavoidable business the day Betty returned to Glenby .
But the next afternoon I went over .
I found Betty out and Sara in .
The latter was beaming .
Betty was so much improved , she declared delightedly .
I would hardly know `` the dear child . ''
This alarmed me terribly .
What on earth had they done to Betty ?
I found that she had gone up to the pineland for a walk , and thither I betook myself speedily .
When I saw her coming down a long , golden-brown alley I stepped behind a tree to watch her -- I wished to see her , myself unseen .
As she drew near I gazed at her with pride , and admiration and amazement -- and , under it all , a strange , dreadful , heart-sinking , which I could not understand and which I had never in all my life experienced before -- no , not even when Sara had refused me .
Betty was a woman !
Not by virtue of the simple white dress that clung to her tall , slender figure , revealing lines of exquisite grace and litheness ; not by virtue of the glossy masses of dark brown hair heaped high on her head and held there in wonderful shining coils ; not by virtue of added softness of curve and daintiness of outline ; not because of all these , but because of the dream and wonder and seeking in her eyes .
She was a woman , looking , all unconscious of her quest , for love .
The understanding of the change in her came home to me with a shock that must have left me , I think , something white about the lips .
I was glad .
She was what I had wished her to become .
But I wanted the child Betty back ; this womanly Betty seemed far away from me .
I stepped out into the path and she saw me , with a brightening of her whole face .
She did not rush forward and fling herself into my arms as she would have done a year ago ; but she came towards me swiftly , holding out her hand .
I had thought her slightly pale when I had first seen her ; but now I concluded I had been mistaken , for there was a wonderful sunrise of color in her face .
I took her hand -- there were no kisses this time .
`` Welcome home , Betty , '' I said .
`` Oh , Stephen , it is so good to be back , '' she breathed , her eyes shining .
She did not say it was good to see me again , as I had hoped she would do .
Indeed , after the first minute of greeting , she seemed a trifle cool and distant .
We walked for an hour in the pine wood and talked .
Betty was brilliant , witty , self-possessed , altogether charming .
I thought her perfect and yet my heart ached .
What a glorious young thing she was , in that splendid youth of hers !
What a prize for some lucky man -- confound the obtrusive thought !
No doubt we should soon be overrun at Glenby with lovers .
I should stumble over some forlorn youth at every step !
Well , what of it ?
Betty would marry , of course .
It would be my duty to see that she got a good husband , worthy of her as men go .
I thought I preferred the old duty of superintending her studies .
But there , it was all the same thing -- merely a post-graduate course in applied knowledge .
When she began to learn life's greatest lesson of love , I , the tried and true old family friend and mentor , must be on hand to see that the teacher was what I would have him be , even as I had formerly selected her instructor in French and botany .
Then , and not until then , would Betty's education be complete .
I rode home very soberly .
When I reached The Maples I did what I had not done for years ... looked critically at myself in the mirror .
The realization that I had grown older came home to me with a new and unpleasant force .
There were marked lines on my lean face , and silver glints in the dark hair over my temples .
When Betty was ten she had thought me `` an old person . ''
Now , at eighteen , she probably thought me a veritable ancient of days .
Pshaw , what did it matter ?
And yet ... I thought of her as I had seen her , standing under the pines , and something cold and painful laid its hand on my heart .
My premonitions as to lovers proved correct .
Glenby was soon infested with them .
Heaven knows where they all came from .
I had not supposed there was a quarter as many young men in the whole county ; but there they were .
Sara was in the seventh heaven of delight .
Was not Betty at last a belle ?
As for the proposals ... well , Betty never counted her scalps in public ; but every once in a while a visiting youth dropped out and was seen no more at Glenby .
One could guess what that meant .
Betty apparently enjoyed all this .
I grieve to say that she was a bit of a coquette .
I tried to cure her of this serious defect , but for once I found that I had undertaken something I could not accomplish .
In vain I lectured , Betty only laughed ; in vain I gravely rebuked , Betty only flirted more vivaciously than before .
Men might come and men might go , but Betty went on forever .
I endured this sort of thing for a year and then I decided that it was time to interfere seriously .
I must find a husband for Betty ... my fatherly duty would not be fulfilled until I had ... nor , indeed , my duty to society .
She was not a safe person to have running at large .
None of the men who haunted Glenby was good enough for her .
I decided that my nephew , Frank , would do very well .
He was a capital young fellow , handsome , clean-souled , and whole-hearted .
From a worldly point of view he was what Sara would have termed an excellent match ; he had money , social standing and a rising reputation as a clever young lawyer .
Yes , he should have Betty , confound him !
They had never met .
I set the wheels going at once .
The sooner all the fuss was over the better .
I hated fuss and there was bound to be a good deal of it .
But I went about the business like an accomplished matchmaker .
I invited Frank to visit The Maples and , before he came , I talked much ... but not too much ... of him to Betty , mingling judicious praise and still more judicious blame together .
Women never like a paragon .
Betty heard me with more gravity than she usually accorded to my dissertations on young men .
She even condescended to ask several questions about him .
This I thought a good sign .
To Frank I had said not a word about Betty ; when he came to The Maples I took him over to Glenby and , coming upon Betty wandering about among the beeches in the sunset , I introduced him without any warning .
He would have been more than mortal if he had not fallen in love with her upon the spot .
It was not in the heart of man to resist her ... that dainty , alluring bit of womanhood .
She was all in white , with flowers in her hair , and , for a moment , I could have murdered Frank or any other man who dared to commit the sacrilege of loving her .
Then I pulled myself together and left them alone .
I might have gone in and talked to Sara ... two old folks gently reviewing their youth while the young folks courted outside ... but I did not .
I prowled about the pine wood , and tried to forget how blithe and handsome that curly-headed boy , Frank , was , and what a flash had sprung into his eyes when he had seen Betty .
Well , what of it ?
Was not that what I had brought him there for ?
And was I not pleased at the success of my scheme ?
Certainly I was !
Delighted !
Next day Frank went to Glenby without even making the poor pretense of asking me to accompany him .
I spent the time of his absence overseeing the construction of a new greenhouse I was having built .
I was conscientious in my supervision ; but I felt no interest in it .
The place was intended for roses , and roses made me think of the pale yellow ones Betty had worn at her breast one evening the week before , when , all lovers being unaccountably absent , we had wandered together under the pines and talked as in the old days before her young womanhood and my gray hairs had risen up to divide us .
She had dropped a rose on the brown floor , and I had sneaked back , after I had left her the house , to get it , before I went home .
I had it now in my pocket-book .
Confound it , mightn't a future uncle cherish a family affection for his prospective niece ?
Frank's wooing seemed to prosper .
The other young sparks , who had haunted Glenby , faded away after his advent .
Betty treated him with most encouraging sweetness ; Sara smiled on him ; I stood in the background , like a benevolent god of the machine , and flattered myself that I pulled the strings .
At the end of a month something went wrong .
Frank came home from Glenby one day in the dumps , and moped for two whole days .
I rode down myself on the third .
I had not gone much to Glenby that month ; but , if there were trouble Bettyward , it was my duty to make smooth the rough places .
As usual , I found Betty in the pineland .
I thought she looked rather pale and dull ... fretting about Frank no doubt .
She brightened up when she saw me , evidently expecting that I had come to straighten matters out ; but she pretended to be haughty and indifferent .
`` I am glad you haven't forgotten us altogether , Stephen , '' she said coolly .
`` You haven't been down for a week . ''
`` I 'm flattered that you noticed it , '' I said , sitting down on a fallen tree and looking up at her as she stood , tall and lithe , against an old pine , with her eyes averted .
`` I shouldn't have supposed you 'd want an old fogy like myself poking about and spoiling the idyllic moments of love's young dream . ''
`` Why do you always speak of yourself as old ? ''
said Betty , crossly , ignoring my reference to Frank .
`` Because I am old , my dear .
Witness these gray hairs . ''
I pushed up my hat to show them the more recklessly .
Betty barely glanced at them .
`` You have just enough to give you a distinguished look , '' she said , `` and you are only forty .
A man is in his prime at forty .
He never has any sense until he is forty -- and sometimes he doesn't seem to have any even then , '' she concluded impertinently .
My heart beat .
Did Betty suspect ?
Was that last sentence meant to inform me that she was aware of my secret folly , and laughed at it ?
`` I came over to see what has gone wrong between you and Frank , '' I said gravely .
Betty bit her lips .
`` Nothing , '' she said .
`` Betty , '' I said reproachfully , `` I brought you up ... or endeavored to bring you up ... to speak the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth .
Don't tell me I have failed .
I'll give you another chance .
Have you quarreled with Frank ? ''
`` No , '' said the maddening Betty , `` HE quarreled with me .
He went away in a temper and I do not care if he never comes back ! ''
I shook my head .
`` This won't do , Betty .
As your old family friend I still claim the right to scold you until you have a husband to do the scolding .
You mustn't torment Frank .
He is too fine a fellow .
You must marry him , Betty . ''
`` Must I ? ''
said Betty , a dusky red flaming out on her cheek .
She turned her eyes on me in a most disconcerting fashion .
`` Do YOU wish me to marry Frank , Stephen ? ''
Betty had a wretched habit of emphasizing pronouns in a fashion calculated to rattle anybody .
`` Yes , I do wish it , because I think it will be best for you , '' I replied , without looking at her .
`` You must marry some time , Betty , and Frank is the only man I know to whom I could trust you .
As your guardian , I have an interest in seeing you well and wisely settled for life .
You have always taken my advice and obeyed my wishes ; and you've always found my way the best , in the long run , haven't you , Betty ?
You won't prove rebellious now , I 'm sure .
You know quite well that I am advising you for your own good .
Frank is a splendid young fellow , who loves you with all his heart .
Marry him , Betty .
Mind , I don't COMMAND .
I have no right to do that , and you are too old to be ordered about , if I had .
But I wish and advise it .
Isn't that enough , Betty ? ''
I had been looking away from her all the time I was talking , gazing determinedly down a sunlit vista of pines .
Every word I said seemed to tear my heart , and come from my lips stained with life-blood .
Yes , Betty should marry Frank !
But , good God , what would become of me !
Betty left her station under the pine tree , and walked around me until she got right in front of my face .
I couldn't help looking at her , for if I moved my eyes she moved too .
There was nothing meek or submissive about her ; her head was held high , her eyes were blazing , and her cheeks were crimson .
But her words were meek enough .
`` I will marry Frank if you wish it , Stephen , '' she said .
`` You are my friend .
I have never crossed your wishes , and , as you say , I have never regretted being guided by them .
I will do exactly as you wish in this case also , I promise you that .
But , in so solemn a question , I must be very certain what you DO wish .
There must be no doubt in my mind or heart .
Look me squarely in the eyes , Stephen -- as you haven't done once to-day , no , nor once since I came home from school -- and , so looking , tell me that you wish me to marry Frank Douglas and I will do it !
DO you , Stephen ? ''
I had to look her in the eyes , since nothing else would do her ; and , as I did so , all the might of manhood in me rose up in hot revolt against the lie I would have told her .
That unfaltering , impelling gaze of hers drew the truth from my lips in spite of myself .
`` No , I don't wish you to marry Frank Douglas , a thousand times no ! ''
I said passionately .
`` I don't wish you to marry any man on earth but myself .
I love you -- I love you , Betty .
You are dearer to me than life -- dearer to me than my own happiness .
It was your happiness I thought of -- and so I asked you to marry Frank because I believed he would make you a happy woman .
That is all ! ''
Betty's defiance went from her like a flame blown out .
She turned away and drooped her proud head .
`` It could not have made me a happy woman to marry one man , loving another , '' she said , in a whisper .
I got up and went over to her .
`` Betty , whom do you love ? ''
I asked , also in a whisper .
`` You , '' she murmured meekly -- oh , so meekly , my proud little girl !
`` Betty , '' I said brokenly , `` I 'm old -- too old for you -- I 'm more than twenty years your senior -- I 'm -- '' `` Oh ! ''
Betty wheeled around on me and stamped her foot .
`` Don't mention your age to me again .
I don't care if you 're as old as Methuselah .
But I 'm not going to coax you to marry me , sir !
If you won't , I'll never marry anybody -- I'll live and die an old maid .
You can please yourself , of course ! ''
She turned away , half-laughing , half-crying ; but I caught her in my arms and crushed her sweet lips against mine .
`` Betty , I 'm the happiest man in the world -- and I was the most miserable when I came here . ''
`` You deserved to be , '' said Betty cruelly .
`` I 'm glad you were .
Any man as stupid as you deserves to be unhappy .
What do you think I felt like , loving you with all my heart , and seeing you simply throwing me at another man's head .
Why , I've always loved you , Stephen ; but I didn't know it until I went to that detestable school .
Then I found out -- and I thought that was why you had sent me .
But , when I came home , you almost broke my heart .
That was why I flirted so with all those poor , nice boys -- I wanted to hurt you but I never thought I succeeded .
You just went on being FATHERLY .
Then , when you brought Frank here , I almost gave up hope ; and I tried to make up my mind to marry him ; I should have done it if you had insisted .
But I had to have one more try for happiness first .
I had just one little hope to inspire me with sufficient boldness .
I saw you , that night , when you came back here and picked up my rose !
I had come back , myself , to be alone and unhappy . ''
`` It is the most wonderful thing that ever happened -- that you should love me , '' I said .
`` It's not -- I couldn't help it , '' said Betty , nestling her brown head on my shoulder .
`` You taught me everything else , Stephen , so nobody but you could teach me how to love .
You've made a thorough thing of educating me . ''
`` When will you marry me , Betty ? ''
I asked .
`` As soon as I can fully forgive you for trying to make me marry somebody else , '' said Betty .
It was rather hard lines on Frank , when you come to think of it .
But , such is the selfishness of human nature that we didn't think much about Frank .
The young fellow behaved like the Douglas he was .
Went a little white about the lips when I told him , wished me all happiness , and went quietly away , `` gentleman unafraid . ''
He has since married and is , I understand , very happy .
Not as happy as I am , of course ; that is impossible , because there is only one Betty in the world , and she is my wife .
