When I was a child I always thought a visit to Wyther Grange was a great treat .
It was a big , quiet , old-fashioned house where Grandmother Laurance and Mrs. DeLisle , my Aunt Winnifred , lived .
I was a favourite with them , yet I could never overcome a certain awe of them both .
Grandmother was a tall , dignified old lady with keen black eyes that seemed veritably to bore through one .
She always wore stiffly-rustling gowns of rich silk made in the fashion of her youth .
I suppose she must have changed her dress occasionally , but the impression on my mind was always the same , as she went trailing about the house with a big bunch of keys at her belt -- keys that opened a score of wonderful old chests and boxes and drawers .
It was one of my dearest delights to attend Grandmother in her peregrinations and watch the unfolding and examining of all those old treasures and heirlooms of bygone Laurances .
Of Aunt Winnifred I was less in awe , possibly because she dressed in a modern way and so looked to my small eyes more human and natural .
As Winnifred Laurance she had been the beauty of the family and was a handsome woman still , with brilliant dark eyes and cameo-like features .
She always looked very sad , spoke in a low sweet voice , and was my childish ideal of all that was high-bred and graceful .
I had many beloved haunts at the Grange , but I liked the garret best .
It was a roomy old place , big enough to have comfortably housed a family in itself , and was filled with cast-off furniture and old trunks and boxes of discarded finery .
I was never tired of playing there , dressing up in the old-fashioned gowns and hats and practising old-time dance steps before the high , cracked mirror that hung at one end .
That old garret was a veritable fairyland to me .
There was one old chest which I could not explore and , like all forbidden things , it possessed a great attraction for me .
It stood away back in a dusty , cobwebbed corner , a strong , high wooden box , painted blue .
From some words which I had heard Grandmother let fall I was sure it had a history ; it was the one thing she never explored in her periodical overhaulings .
When I grew tired of playing I liked to creep up on it and sit there , picturing out my own fancies concerning it -- of which my favourite one was that some day I should solve the riddle and open the chest to find it full of gold and jewels with which I might restore the fortune of the Laurances and all the traditionary splendours of the old Grange .
I was sitting there one day when Aunt Winnifred and Grandmother Laurance came up the narrow dark staircase , the latter jingling her keys and peering into the dusty corners as she came along the room .
When they came to the old chest , Grandmother rapped the top smartly with her keys .
`` I wonder what is in this old chest , '' she said .
`` I believe it really should be opened .
The moths may have got into it through that crack in the lid . ''
`` Why don't you open it , Mother ? ''
said Mrs. DeLisle .
`` I am sure that key of Robert 's would fit the lock . ''
`` No , '' said Grandmother in the tone that nobody , not even Aunt Winnifred , ever dreamed of disputing .
`` I will not open that chest without Eliza 's permission .
She confided it to my care when she went away , and I promised that it should never be opened until she came for it . ''
`` Poor Eliza , '' said Mrs. DeLisle thoughtfully .
`` I wonder what she is like now .
Very much changed , like all the rest of us , I suppose .
It is almost thirty years since she was here .
How pretty she was ! ''
`` I never approved of her , '' said Grandmother brusquely .
`` She was a sentimental , fanciful creature .
She might have married well but she preferred to waste her life pining over the memory of a man who was not worthy to untie the shoelace of a Laurance . ''
Mrs. DeLisle sighed softly and made no reply .
People said that she had had her own romance in her youth and that her mother had sternly repressed it .
I had heard that her marriage with Mr. DeLisle was loveless on her part and proved very unhappy .
But he had been dead many years , and Aunt Winnifred never spoke of him .
`` I have made up my mind what to do , '' said Grandmother decidedly .
`` I will write to Eliza and ask her if I may open the chest to see if the moths have got into it .
If she refuses , well and good .
I have no doubt that she will refuse .
She will cling to her old sentimental ideas as long as the breath is in her body . ''
I rather avoided the old chest after this .
It took on a new significance in my eyes and seemed to me like the tomb of something -- possibly some dead and buried romance of the past .
Later on a letter came to Grandmother ; she passed it over the table to Mrs. DeLisle .
`` That is from Eliza , '' she said .
`` I would know her writing anywhere -- none of your modern sprawly , untidy hands , but a fine lady-like script , as regular as copperplate .
Read the letter , Winnifred ; I haven't my glasses and I dare say Eliza 's rhapsodies would tire me very much .
You need not read them aloud -- I can imagine them all .
Let me know what she says about the chest . ''
Aunt Winnifred opened and read the letter and laid it down with a brief sigh .
`` This is all she says about the chest .
` If it were not for one thing that is in it , I would ask you to open the chest and burn all its contents .
But I can not bear that anyone but myself should see or touch that one thing .
So please leave the chest as it is , dear Aunt .
It is no matter if the moths do get in . '
That is all , '' continued Mrs. DeLisle , `` and I must confess that I am disappointed .
I have always had an almost childish curiosity about that old chest , but I seem fated not to have it gratified .
That ` one thing ' must be her wedding dress .
I have always thought that she locked it away there . ''
`` Her answer is just what I expected of her , '' said Grandmother impatiently .
`` Evidently the years have not made her more sensible .
Well , I wash my hands of her belongings , moths or no moths . ''
It was not until ten years afterwards that I heard anything more of the old chest .
Grandmother Laurance had died , but Aunt Winnifred still lived at the Grange .
She was very lonely , and the winter after Grandmother 's death she sent me an invitation to make her a long visit .
When I revisited the garret and saw the old blue chest in the same dusty corner , my childish curiosity revived and I begged Aunt Winnifred to tell me its history .
`` I am glad you have reminded me of it , '' said Mrs. DeLisle .
`` I have intended to open the chest ever since Mother 's death but I kept putting it off .
You know , Amy , poor Eliza Laurance died five years ago , but even then Mother would not have the chest opened .
There is no reason why it should not be examined now .
If you like , we will go and open it at once and afterwards I will tell you the story . ''
We went eagerly up the garret stairs .
Aunt knelt down before the old chest and selected a key from the bunch at her belt .
`` Would it not be too provoking , Amy , if this key should not fit after all ?
Well , I do not believe you would be any more disappointed than I. '' She turned the key and lifted the heavy lid .
I bent forward eagerly .
A layer of tissue paper revealed itself , with a fine tracing of sifted dust in its crinkles .
`` Lift it up , child , '' said my aunt gently .
`` There are no ghosts for you , at least , in this old chest . ''
I lifted the paper up and saw that the chest was divided into two compartments .
Lying on the top of one was a small , square , inlaid box .
This Mrs. DeLisle took up and carried to the window .
Lifting up the cover she laid it in my lap .
`` There , Amy , look through it and let us see what old treasures have lain hidden there these forty years . ''
The first thing I took out was a small square case covered with dark purple velvet .
The tiny clasp was almost rusted away and yielded easily .
I gave a little cry of admiration .
Aunt Winnifred bent over my shoulder .
`` That is Eliza 's portrait at the age of twenty , and that is Willis Starr 's .
Was she not lovely , Amy ? ''
Lovely indeed was the face looking out at me from its border of tarnished gilt .
It was the face of a young girl , in shape a perfect oval , with delicate features and large dark-blue eyes .
Her hair , caught high on the crown and falling on her neck in the long curls of a bygone fashion , was a warm auburn , and the curves of her bare neck and shoulders were exquisite .
`` The other picture is that of the man to whom she was betrothed .
Tell me , Amy , do you think him handsome ? ''
I looked at the other portrait critically .
It was that of a young man of about twenty-five ; he was undeniably handsome , but there was something I did not like in his face and I said so .
Aunt Winnifred made no reply -- she was taking out the remaining contents of the box .
There was a white silk fan with delicately carved ivory sticks , a packet of old letters and a folded paper containing some dried and crumpled flowers .
Aunt laid the box aside and unpacked the chest in silence .
First came a ball dress of pale-yellow satin brocade , made with the trained skirt , `` baby '' waist and full puffed sleeves of a former generation .
Beneath it was a case containing a necklace of small but perfect pearls and a pair of tiny satin slippers .
The rest of the compartment was filled with household linen , fine and costly but yellowed with age -- damask table linen and webs of the uncut fabric .
In the second compartment lay a dress .
Aunt Winnifred lifted it out reverently .
It was a gown of rich silk that had once been white , but now , like the linen , it was yellow with age .
It was simply made and trimmed with cobwebby old lace .
Wrapped around it was a long white bridal veil , redolent with some strange , old-time perfume that had kept its sweetness all through the years .
`` Well , Amy , this is all , '' said Aunt Winnifred with a quiver in her voice .
`` And now for the story .
Where shall I begin ? ''
`` At the very beginning , Aunty .
You see I know nothing at all except her name .
Tell me who she was and why she put her wedding dress away here . ''
`` Poor Eliza ! ''
said Aunt dreamily .
`` It is a sorrowful story , Amy , and it seems so long ago now .
I must be an old woman .
Forty years ago -- and I was only twenty then .
Eliza Laurance was my cousin , the only daughter of Uncle Henry Laurance .
My father -- your grandfather , Amy , you don't remember him -- had two brothers , each of whom had an only daughter .
Both these girls were called Eliza after your great-grandmother .
I never saw Uncle George 's Eliza but once .
He was a rich man and his daughter was much sought after , but she was no beauty , I promise you that , and proud and vain to the last degree .
Her home was in a distant city and she never came to Wyther Grange .
`` The other Eliza Laurance was a poor man 's daughter .
She and I were of the same age and did not look unlike each other , although I was not so pretty by half .
You can see by the portrait how beautiful she was , and it does her scant justice , for half her charm lay in her arch expression and her vivacious ways .
She had her little faults , of course , and was rather over much given to romance and sentiment .
This did not seem much of a defect to me then , Amy , for I was young and romantic too .
Mother never cared much for Eliza , I think , but everyone else liked her .
One winter Eliza came to Wyther Grange for a long visit .
The Grange was a very lively place then , Amy .
Eliza kept the old house ringing with merriment .
We went out a great deal and she was always the belle of any festivity we attended .
Yet she wore her honours easily ; all the flattery and homage she received did not turn her head .
`` That winter we first met Willis Starr .
He was a newcomer , and nobody knew much about him , but one or two of the best families took him up , and his own fascinations did the rest .
He became what you would call the rage .
He was considered very handsome , his manners were polished and easy , and people said he was rich .
`` I don't think , Amy , that I ever trusted Willis Starr .
But like all the rest , I was blinded by his charm .
Mother was almost the only one who did not worship at his shrine , and very often she dropped hints about penniless adventurers that made Eliza very indignant .
`` From the first he had paid Eliza marked attention and seemed utterly bewitched by her .
Well , his was an easy winning .
Eliza loved him with her whole impulsive , girlish heart and made no attempt to hide it .
`` I shall never forget the night they were first engaged .
It was Eliza 's birthday , and we were invited to a ball that evening .
This yellow gown is the very one she wore .
I suppose that is why she put it away here -- the gown she wore on the happiest night of her life .
I had never seen her look more beautiful -- her neck and arms were bare , and she wore this string of pearls and carried a bouquet of her favourite white roses .
`` When we reached home after the dance , Eliza had her happy secret to tell us .
She was engaged to Willis Starr , and they were to be married in early spring .
`` Willis Starr certainly seemed to be an ideal lover , and Eliza was so perfectly happy that she seemed to grow more beautiful and radiant every day .
`` Well , Amy , the wedding day was set .
Eliza was to be married from the Grange , as her own mother was dead , and I was to be bridesmaid .
We made her wedding dress together , she and I. Girls were not above making their own gowns then , and not a stitch was set in Eliza 's save those put there by loving fingers and blessed by loving wishes .
It was I who draped the veil over her sunny curls -- see how yellow and creased it is now , but it was as white as snow that day .
`` A week before the wedding , Willis Starr was spending the evening at the Grange .
We were all chattering gaily about the coming event , and in speaking of the invited guests Eliza said something about the other Eliza Laurance , the great heiress , looking archly at Willis over her shoulder as she spoke .
It was some merry badinage about the cousin whose namesake she was but whom she so little resembled .
`` We all laughed , but I shall never forget the look that came over Willis Starr 's face .
It passed quickly , but the chill fear that it gave me remained .
A few minutes later I left the room on some trifling errand , and as I returned through the dim hall I was met by Willis Starr .
He laid his hand on my arm and bent his evil face -- for it was evil then , Amy -- close to mine . ''
` Tell me , ' he said in a low but rude tone , ` is there another Eliza Laurance who is an heiress ? ' ''
` Certainly there is , ' I said sharply .
` She is our cousin and the daughter of our Uncle George .
Our Eliza is not an heiress .
You surely did not suppose she was ! '
`` Willis stepped aside with a mocking smile . '' '
I did -- what wonder ?
I had heard much about the great heiress , Eliza Laurance , and the great beauty , Eliza Laurance .
I supposed they were one and the same .
You have all been careful not to undeceive me . ' ''
` You forget yourself , Mr. Starr , when you speak so to me , ' I retorted coldly .
` You have deceived yourself .
We have never dreamed of allowing anyone to think that Eliza was an heiress .
She is sweet and lovely enough to be loved for her own sake . '
`` I went back to the parlour full of dismay .
Willis Starr remained gloomy and taciturn all the rest of the evening , but nobody seemed to notice it but myself .
`` The next day we were all so busy that I almost forgot the incident of the previous evening .
We girls were up in the sewing room putting the last touches to the wedding gown .
Eliza tried it and her veil on and was standing so , in all her silken splendour , when a letter was brought in .
I guessed by her blush who was the writer .
I laughed and ran downstairs , leaving her to read it .
`` When I returned she was still standing just where I had left her in the middle of the room , holding the letter in her hand .
Her face was as white as her veil , and her wide-open eyes had a dazed , agonized look as of someone who had been stricken a mortal blow .
All the soft happiness and sweetness had gone out of them .
They were the eyes of an old woman , Amy . ''
` Eliza , what is the matter ? '
I said .
` Has anything happened to Willis ? '
`` She made no answer , but walked to the fireplace , dropped the letter in a bed of writhing blue flame and watched it burn to white ashes .
Then she turned to me . ''
` Help me take off this gown , Winnie , ' she said dully . '
I shall never wear it again .
There will be no wedding .
Willis is gone . ' ''
` Gone ! '
I echoed stupidly . ''
` Yes .
I am not the heiress , Winnie .
It was the fortune , not the girl , he loved .
He says he is too poor for us to dream of marrying when I have nothing .
Oh , such a cruel , heartless letter !
Why did he not kill me ?
It would have been so much more merciful !
I loved him so -- I trusted him so !
Oh , Winnie , Winnie , what am I to do ! '
`` There was something terrible in the contrast between her passionate words and her calm face and lifeless voice .
I wanted to call Mother , but she would not let me .
She went away to her own room , trailing along the dark hall in her dress and veil , and locked herself in .
`` Well , I told it all to the others in some fashion .
You can imagine their anger and dismay .
Your father , Amy -- he was a hot-blooded , impetuous , young fellow then -- went at once to seek Willis Starr .
But he was gone , no one knew where , and the whole country rang with the gossip and scandal of the affair .
Eliza knew nothing of this , for she was ill and unconscious for many a day .
In a novel or story she would have died , I suppose , and that would have been the end of it .
But this was in real life , and Eliza did not die , although many times we thought she would .
`` When she did recover , how frightfully changed she was !
It almost broke my heart to see her .
Her very nature seemed to have changed too -- all her joyousness and light-heartedness were dead .
From that time she was a faded , dispirited creature , no more like the Eliza we had known than the merest stranger .
And then after a while came other news -- Willis Starr was married to the other Eliza Laurance , the true heiress .
He had made no second mistake .
We tried to keep it from Eliza but she found it out at last .
That was the day she came up here alone and packed this old chest .
Nobody ever knew just what she put into it .
But you and I see now , Amy -- her ball dress , her wedding gown , her love letters and , more than all else , her youth and happiness -- this old chest was the tomb of it all .
Eliza Laurance was really buried here .
`` She went home soon after .
Before she went she exacted a promise from Mother that the old chest should be left at the Grange unopened until she came for it herself .
But she never came back , and I do not think she ever intended to , and I never saw her again .
`` That is the story of the old chest .
It was all over so long ago -- the heartbreak and the misery -- but it all seems to come back to me now .
Poor Eliza ! ''
My own eyes were full of tears as Aunt Winnifred went down the stairs , leaving me sitting dreamily there in the sunset light , with the old yellowed bridal veil across my lap and the portrait of Eliza Laurance in my hand .
Around me were the relics of her pitiful story -- the old , oft-repeated story of a faithless love and a woman 's broken heart -- the gown she had worn , the slippers in which she had danced light-heartedly at her betrothal ball , her fan , her pearls , her gloves -- and it somehow seemed to me as if I were living in those old years myself , as if the love and happiness , the betrayal and pain were part of my own life .
Presently Aunt Winnifred came back through the twilight shadows .
`` Let us put all these things back in their grave , Amy , '' she said .
`` They are of no use to anyone now .
The linen might be bleached and used , I dare say -- but it would seem like a sacrilege .
It was Mother 's wedding present to Eliza .
And the pearls -- would you care to have them , Amy ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' I said with a little shiver .
`` I would never wear them , Aunt Winnifred .
I should feel like a ghost if I did .
Put everything back just as we found it -- only her portrait .
I would like to keep that . ''
Reverently we put gowns and letters and trinkets back into the old blue chest .
Aunt Winnifred closed the lid and turned the key softly .
She bowed her head over it for a minute and then we went together in silence down the shadowy garret stairs of Wyther Grange .
