Robert Reeves looked somewhat curiously at the girl who was waiting on him at his solitary breakfast .
He had not seen her before , arriving at his summer boarding house only the preceding night .
It was a shabby farmhouse on the inland shore of a large bay that was noted for its tides , and had wonderful possibilities of light and shade for an impressionist .
Reeves was an enthusiastic artist .
It mattered little to him that the boarding accommodations were most primitive , the people uncultured and dull , the place itself utterly isolated , as long as he could revel in those transcendent sunsets and sunrises , those marvellous moonlights , those wonderful purple shores and sweeps of shimmering blue water .
The owner of the farm was Angus Fraser , and he and his wife seemed to be a reserved , uncouth pair , with no apparent interest in life save to scratch a bare living out of their few stony acres .
He had an impression that they were childless and was at a loss to place this girl who poured his tea and brought in his toast .
She did not resemble either Fraser or his wife .
She was certainly not beautiful , being very tall and rather awkward , and dressed in a particularly unbecoming dark print wrapper .
Her luxuriant hair was thick and black , and was coiled in a heavy knot at the nape of her neck .
Her features were delicate but irregular , and her skin was very brown .
Her eyes attracted Reeves's notice especially ; they were large and dark and full of a half-unconscious , wistful longing , as if a prisoned soul behind them were vainly trying to reveal itself .
Reeves could find out nothing of her from herself , for she responded to his tentative questions about the place in the briefest fashion .
Afterwards he interviewed Mrs. Fraser cautiously , and ascertained that the girl's name was Helen Fraser , and that she was Angus's niece .
`` Her father and mother are dead and we've brought her up .
Helen's a good girl in most ways -- a little obstinate and sulky now and then -- but generally she's steady enough , and as for work , there ain't a girl in Bay Beach can come up to her in house or field .
Angus calculates she saves him a man's wages clear .
No , I ain't got nothing to say against Helen . ''
Nevertheless , Reeves felt somehow that Mrs. Fraser did not like her husband's niece .
He often heard her scolding or nagging Helen at her work , and noticed that the latter never answered back .
But once , after Mrs. Angus's tongue had been especially bitter , he met the girl hurrying along the hall from the kitchen with her eyes full of tears .
Reeves felt as if someone had struck him a blow .
He went to Angus and his wife that afternoon .
He wished to paint a shore picture , he said , and wanted a model .
Would they allow Miss Fraser to pose for him ?
He would pay liberally for her time .
Angus and his wife had no objection .
They would pocket the money , and Helen could be spared a spell every day as well as not .
Reeves told Helen of his plan himself , meeting her in the evening as she was bringing the cows home from the low shore pastures beyond the marsh .
He was surprised at the sudden illumination of her face .
It almost transfigured her from a plain , sulky-looking girl into a beautiful woman .
But the glow passed quickly .
She assented to his plan quietly , almost lifelessly .
He walked home with her behind the cows and talked of the sunset and the mysterious beauty of the bay and the purple splendour of the distant coasts .
She listened in silence .
Only once , when he spoke of the distant murmur of the open sea , she lifted her head and looked at him .
`` What does it say to you ? ''
she asked .
`` It speaks of eternity .
And to you ? ''
`` It calls me , '' she answered simply , `` and then I want to go out and meet it -- and it hurts me too .
I can't tell how or why .
Sometimes it makes me feel as if I were asleep and wanted to wake and didn't know how . ''
She turned and looked out over the bay .
A dying gleam of sunset broke through a cloud and fell across her hair .
For a moment she seemed the spirit of the shore personified -- all its mystery , all its uncertainty , all its elusive charm .
She has possibilities , thought Reeves .
Next day he began his picture .
At first he had thought of painting her as the incarnation of a sea spirit , but decided that her moods were too fitful .
So he began to sketch her as `` Waiting '' -- a woman looking out across the bay with a world of hopeless longing in her eyes .
The subject suited her well , and the picture grew apace .
When he was tired of work he made her walk around the shore with him , or row up the head of the bay in her own boat .
He tried to draw her out , at first with indifferent success .
She seemed to be frightened of him .
He talked to her of many things -- the far outer world whose echoes never reached her , foreign lands where he had travelled , famous men and women whom he had met , music , art and books .
When he spoke of books he touched the right chord .
One of those transfiguring flashes he delighted to evoke now passed over her plain face .
`` That is what I've always wanted , '' she said hungrily , `` and I never get them .
Aunt hates to see me reading .
She says it is a waste of time .
And I love it so .
I read every scrap of paper I can get hold of , but I hardly ever see a book . ''
The next day Reeves took his Tennyson to the shore and began to read the Idylls of the King to her .
`` It is beautiful , '' was her sole verbal comment , but her rapt eyes said everything .
After that he never went out with her without a book -- now one of the poets , now some prose classic .
He was surprised by her quick appreciation of and sympathy with the finest passages .
Gradually , too , she forgot her shyness and began to talk .
She knew nothing of his world , but her own world she knew and knew well .
She was a mine of traditional history about the bay .
She knew the rocky coast by heart , and every old legend that clung to it .
They drifted into making excursions along the shore and explored its wildest retreats .
The girl had an artist's eye for scenery and colour effect .
`` You should have been an artist , '' Reeves told her one day when she had pointed out to him the exquisite loveliness of a shaft of light falling through a cleft in the rocks across a dark-green pool at their base .
`` I would rather be a writer , '' she said slowly , `` if I could only write something like those books you have read to me .
What a glorious destiny it must be to have something to say that the whole world is listening for , and to be able to say it in words that will live forever !
It must be the noblest human lot . ''
`` Yet some of those men and women were neither good nor noble , '' said Reeves gently , `` and many of them were unhappy . ''
Helen dismissed the subject as abruptly as she always did when the conversation touched too nearly on the sensitive edge of her soul dreams .
`` Do you know where I am taking you today ? ''
she said .
`` No -- where ? ''
`` To what the people here call the Kelpy's Cave .
I hate to go there .
I believe there is something uncanny about it , but I think you will like to see it .
It is a dark little cave in the curve of a small cove , and on each side the headlands of rock run far out .
At low tide we can walk right around , but when the tide comes in it fills the Kelpy's Cave .
If you were there and let the tide come past the points , you would be drowned unless you could swim , for the rocks are so steep and high it is impossible to climb them . ''
Reeves was interested .
`` Was anyone ever caught by the tide ? ''
`` Yes , '' returned Helen , with a shudder .
`` Once , long ago , before I was born , a girl went around the shore to the cave and fell asleep there -- and the tide came in and she was drowned .
She was young and very pretty , and was to have been married the next week .
I've been afraid of the place ever since . ''
The treacherous cave proved to be a picturesque and innocent-looking spot , with the beach of glittering sand before it and the high gloomy walls of rock on either hand .
`` I must come here some day and sketch it , '' said Reeves enthusiastically , `` and you must be the Kelpy , Helen , and sit in the cave with your hair wrapped about you and seaweed clinging to it . ''
`` Do you think a kelpy would look like that ? ''
said the girl dreamily .
`` I don't .
I think it is a wild , wicked little sea imp , malicious and mocking and cruel , and it sits here and watches for victims . ''
`` Well , never mind your sea kelpies , '' Reeves said , fishing out his Longfellow .
`` They are a tricky folk , if all tales be true , and it is supposed to be a very rash thing to talk about them in their own haunts .
I want to read you ` The Building of the Ship . '
You will like it , I 'm sure . ''
When the tide turned they went home .
`` We haven't seen the kelpy , after all , '' said Reeves .
`` I think I shall see him some day , '' said Helen gravely .
`` I think he is waiting for me there in that gloomy cave of his , and some time or other he will get me . ''
Reeves smiled at the gloomy fancy , and Helen smiled back at him with one of her sudden radiances .
The tide was creeping swiftly up over the white sands .
The sun was low and the bay was swimming in a pale blue glory .
They parted at Clam Point , Helen to go for the cows and Reeves to wander on up the shore .
He thought of Helen at first , and the wonderful change that had come over her of late ; then he began to think of another face -- a marvellously lovely one with blue eyes as tender as the waters before him .
Then Helen was forgotten .
The summer waned swiftly .
One afternoon Reeves took a fancy to revisit the Kelpy's Cave .
Helen could not go .
It was harvest time , and she was needed in the field .
`` Don't let the kelpy catch you , '' she said to him half seriously .
`` The tide will turn early this afternoon , and you are given to day-dreaming . ''
`` I'll be careful , '' he promised laughingly , and he meant to be careful .
But somehow when he reached the cave its unwholesome charm overcame him , and he sat down on the boulder at its mouth .
`` An hour yet before tide time , '' he said .
`` Just enough time to read that article on impressionists in my review and then stroll home by the sandshore . ''
From reading he passed to day-dreaming , and day-dreaming drifted into sleep , with his head pillowed on the rocky walls of the cave .
How long he had slept he did not know , but he woke with a start of horror .
He sprang to his feet , realizing his position instantly .
The tide was in -- far in past the headlands already .
Above and beyond him towered the pitiless unscalable rocks .
There was no way of escape .
Reeves was no coward , but life was sweet to him , and to die like that -- like a drowned rat in a hole -- to be able to do nothing but wait for that swift and sure oncoming death !
He reeled against the damp rock wall , and for a moment sea and sky and prisoning headlands and white-lined tide whirled before his eyes .
Then his head grew clearer .
He tried to think .
How long had he ?
Not more than twenty minutes at the outside .
Well , death was sure and he would meet it bravely .
But to wait -- to wait helplessly !
He should go ; mad with the horror of it before those endless minutes would have passed !
He took something from his pocket and bent his , head over it , pressing his lips to it repeatedly .
And then , when he raised his face again , a dory was coming around the headland on his right , and Helen Fraser was in it .
Reeves was dizzy again with the shock of joy and thankfulness .
He ran down over the little stretch of sand still uncovered by the tide and around to the rocks of the headlands against which the dory was already grating .
He sprang forward impulsively and caught the girl's cold hands in his as she dropped the oars and stood up .
`` Helen , you have saved me !
How can I ever thank you ?
I -- '' He broke off abruptly , for she was looking up at him , breathlessly and voicelessly , with her whole soul in her eyes .
He saw in them a revelation that amazed him ; he dropped her hands and stepped back as if she had struck him in the face .
Helen did not notice the change in him .
She clasped her hands together and her voice trembled .
`` Oh , I was afraid I should be too late !
When I came in from the field Aunt Hannah said you had not come back -- and I knew it was tide time -- and I felt somehow that it had caught you in the cave .
I ran down over the marsh and took Joe Simmon's dory .
If I had not got here in time -- '' She broke off shiveringly .
Reeves stepped into the dory and took up the oars .
`` The kelpy would have been sure of its victim then , '' he said , trying to speak lightly .
`` It would have almost served me right for neglecting your warning .
I was very careless .
You must let me row back .
I am afraid you have overtasked your strength trying to cheat the kelpy . ''
Reeves rowed homeward in an absolute silence .
Helen did not speak and he could not .
When they reached the dory anchorage he helped her out .
`` I think I'll go out to the Point for a walk , '' he said .
`` I want to steady my nerves .
You must go right home and rest .
Don't be anxious -- I won't take any more chances with sea kelpies . ''
Helen went away without a word , and Reeves walked slowly out to the Point .
He was grieved beyond measure at the discovery he believed he had made .
He had never dreamed of such a thing .
He was not a vain man , and was utterly free from all tendency to flirtation .
It had never occurred to him that the waking of the girl's deep nature might be attended with disastrous consequences .
He had honestly meant to help her , and what had he done ?
He felt very uncomfortable ; he could not conscientiously blame himself , but he saw that he had acted foolishly .
And of course he must go away at once .
And he must also tell her something she ought to know .
He wished he had told her long ago .
The following afternoon was a perfect one .
Reeves was sketching on the sandshore when Helen came .
She sat down on a camp stool a little to one side and did not speak .
After a few moments Reeves pushed away his paraphernalia impatiently .
`` I don't feel in a mood for work , '' he said .
`` It is too dreamy a day -- one ought to do nothing to be in keeping .
Besides , I 'm getting lazy now that my vacation is nearly over .
I must go in a few days . ''
He avoided looking at her , so he did not see the sudden pallor of her face .
`` So soon ? ''
she said in a voice expressive of no particular feeling .
`` Yes .
I ought not to have lingered so long .
My world will be forgetting me and that will not do .
It has been a very pleasant summer and I shall be sorry to leave Bay Beach . ''
`` But you will come back next summer ? ''
asked Helen quickly .
`` You said you would . ''
Reeves nerved himself for his very distasteful task .
`` Perhaps , '' he said , with an attempt at carelessness , `` but if I do so , I shall not come alone .
Somebody who is very dear to me will come with me -- as my wife .
I have never told you about her , Helen , but you and I are such good friends that I do not mind doing so now .
I am engaged to a very sweet girl , and we expect to be married next spring . ''
There was a brief silence .
Reeves had been vaguely afraid of a scene and was immensely relieved to find his fear unrealized .
Helen sat very still .
He could not see her face .
Did she care , after all ?
Was he mistaken ?
When she spoke her voice was perfectly calm .
`` Thank you , it is very kind of you to tell me about her .
I suppose she is very beautiful . ''
`` Yes , here is her picture .
You can judge for yourself . ''
Helen took the portrait from his hand and looked at it steadily .
It was a miniature painted on ivory , and the face looking out from it was certainly lovely .
`` It is no wonder you love her , '' said the girl in a low tone as she handed it back .
`` It must be strange to be so beautiful as that . ''
Reeves picked up his Tennyson .
`` Shall I read you something ?
What will you have ? ''
`` Read ` Elaine , ' please .
I want to hear that once more . ''
Reeves felt a sudden dislike to her choice .
`` Wouldn't you prefer something else ? ''
he asked , hurriedly turning over the leaves . ''
` Elaine ' is rather sad .
Shan't I read ` Guinevere ' instead ? ''
`` No , '' said Helen in the same lifeless tone .
`` I have no sympathy for Guinevere .
She suffered and her love was unlawful , but she was loved in return -- she did not waste her love on someone who did not want or care for it .
Elaine did , and her life went with it .
Read me the story . ''
Reeves obeyed .
When he had finished he held the book out to her .
`` Helen , will you take this Tennyson from me in remembrance of our friendship and of the Kelpy's Cave ?
I shall never forget that I owe my life to you . ''
`` Thank you . ''
She took the book and placed a little thread of crimson seaweed that had been caught in the sand between the pages of `` Elaine . ''
Then she rose .
`` I must go back now .
Aunt will need me .
Thank you again for the book , Mr. Reeves , and for all your kindness to me . ''
Reeves was relieved when the interview was over .
Her calmness had reassured him .
She did not care very much , after all ; it was only a passing fancy , and when he was gone she would soon forget him .
He went away a few days later , and Helen bade him an impassive good-bye .
When the afternoon was far spent she stole away from the house to the shore , with her Tennyson in her hand , and took her way to the Kelpy's Cave .
The tide was just beginning to come in .
She sat down on the big boulder where Reeves had fallen asleep .
Beyond stretched the gleaming blue waters , mellowing into a hundred fairy shades horizonward .
The shadows of the rocks were around her .
In front was the white line of the incoming tide ; it had almost reached the headlands .
A few minutes more and escape would be cut off -- yet she did not move .
When the dark green water reached her , and the lapping wavelets swished up over the hem of her dress , she lifted her head and a sudden strange smile flashed over her face .
Perhaps the kelpy understood it .
