`` It's perfectly horrid to be so poor , '' grumbled Penelope .
Penelope did not often grumble , but just now , as she sat tapping with one pink-tipped finger her invitation to Blanche Anderson's party , she felt that grumbling was the only relief she had .
Penelope was seventeen , and when one is seventeen and can not go to a party because one hasn't a suitable dress to wear , the world is very apt to seem a howling wilderness .
`` I wish I could think of some way to get you a new waist , '' said Doris , with what these sisters called `` the poverty pucker '' coming in the centre of her pretty forehead .
`` If your black skirt were sponged and pressed and re-hung , it would do very well . ''
Penelope saw the poverty pucker and immediately repented with all her impetuous heart having grumbled .
That pucker came often enough without being brought there by extra worries .
`` Well , there is no use sitting here sighing for the unattainable , '' she said , jumping up briskly .
`` I 'd better be putting my grey matter into that algebra instead of wasting it plotting for a party dress that I certainly can't get .
It's a sad thing for a body to lack brains when she wants to be a teacher , isn't it ?
If I could only absorb algebra and history as I can music , what a blessing it would be !
Come now , Dorrie dear , smooth that pucker out .
Next year I shall be earning a princely salary , which we can squander on party gowns at will -- if people haven't given up inviting us by that time , in sheer despair of ever being able to conquer our exclusiveness . ''
Penelope went off to her detested algebra with a laugh , but the pucker did not go out of Doris ' forehead .
She wanted Penelope to go to that party .
Penelope has studied so hard all winter and she hasn't gone anywhere , thought the older sister wistfully .
She is getting discouraged over those examinations and she needs just a good , jolly time to hearten her up .
If it could only be managed !
But Doris did not see how it could .
It took every cent of her small salary as typewriter in an uptown office to run their tiny establishment and keep Penelope in school dresses and books .
Indeed , she could not have done even that much if they had not owned their little cottage .
Next year it would be easier if Penelope got through her examinations successfully , but just now there was absolutely not a spare penny .
`` It is hard to be poor .
We are a pair of misfits , '' said Doris , with a patient little smile , thinking of Penelope's uncultivated talent for music and her own housewifely gifts , which had small chance of flowering out in her business life .
Doris dreamed of pretty dresses all that night and thought about them all the next day .
So , it must be confessed , did Penelope , though she would not have admitted it for the world .
When Doris reached home the next evening , she found Penelope hovering over a bulky parcel on the sitting-room table .
`` I 'm so glad you've come , '' she said with an exaggerated gasp of relief .
`` I really don't think my curiosity could have borne the strain for another five minutes .
The expressman brought this parcel an hour ago , and there's a letter for you from Aunt Adella on the clock shelf , and I think they belong to each other .
Hurry up and find out .
Dorrie , darling , what if it should be a -- a -- present of some sort or other ! ''
`` I suppose it can't be anything else , '' smiled Doris .
She knew that Penelope had started out to say `` a new dress . ''
She cut the strings and removed the wrappings .
Both girls stared .
`` Is it -- it isn't -- yes , it is !
Doris Hunter , I believe it's an old quilt ! ''
Doris unfolded the odd present with a queer feeling of disappointment .
She did not know just what she had expected the package to contain , but certainly not this .
She laughed a little shakily .
`` Well , we can't say after this that Aunt Adella never gave us anything , '' she said , when she had opened her letter .
`` Listen , Penelope . ''
My Dear Doris : I have decided to give up housekeeping and go out West to live with Robert .
So I am disposing of such of the family heirlooms as I do not wish to take with me .
I am sending you by express your Grandmother Hunter's silk quilt .
It is a handsome article still and I hope you will prize it as you should .
It took your grandmother five years to make it .
There is a bit of the wedding dress of every member of the family in it .
Love to Penelope and yourself .
Your affectionate aunt , Adella Hunter .
`` I don't see its beauty , '' said Penelope with a grimace .
`` It may have been pretty once , but it is all faded now .
It is a monument of patience , though .
The pattern is what they call ` Little Thousands , ' isn't it ?
Tell me , Dorrie , does it argue a lack of proper respect for my ancestors that I can't feel very enthusiastic over this heirloom -- especially when Grandmother Hunter died years before I was born ? ''
`` It was very kind of Aunt Adella to send it , '' said Doris dutifully .
`` Oh , very , '' agreed Penelope drolly .
`` Only don't ever ask me to sleep under it .
It would give me the nightmare .
O-o-h ! ''
This last was a little squeal of admiration as Doris turned the quilt over and brought to view the shimmering lining .
`` Why , the wrong side is ever so much prettier than the right ! ''
exclaimed Penelope .
`` What lovely , old-timey stuff !
And not a bit faded . ''
The lining was certainly very pretty .
It was a soft , creamy yellow silk , with a design of brocaded pink rosebuds all over it .
`` That was a dress Grandmother Hunter had when she was a girl , '' said Doris absently .
`` I remember hearing Aunt Adella speak of it .
When it became old-fashioned , Grandmother used it to line her quilt .
I declare , it is as good as new . ''
`` Well , let us go and have tea , '' said Penelope .
`` I 'm decidedly hungry .
Besides , I see the poverty pucker coming .
Put the quilt in the spare room .
It is something to possess an heirloom , after all .
It gives one a nice , important-family feeling . ''
After tea , when Penelope was patiently grinding away at her studies and thinking dolefully enough of the near-approaching examinations , which she dreaded , and of teaching , which she confidently expected to hate , Doris went up to the tiny spare room to look at the wrong side of the quilt again .
`` It would make the loveliest party waist , '' she said under her breath .
`` Creamy yellow is Penelope's colour , and I could use that bit of old black lace and those knots of velvet ribbon that I have to trim it .
I wonder if Grandmother Hunter's reproachful spirit will forever haunt me if I do it . ''
Doris knew very well that she would do it -- had known it ever since she had looked at that lovely lining and a vision of Penelope's vivid face and red-brown hair rising above a waist of the quaint old silk had flashed before her mental sight .
That night , after Penelope had gone to bed , Doris ripped the lining out of Grandmother Hunter's silk quilt .
`` If Aunt Adella saw me now ! ''
she laughed softly to herself as she worked .
In the three following evenings Doris made the waist .
She thought it a wonderful bit of good luck that Penelope went out each of the evenings to study some especially difficult problems with a school chum .
`` It will be such a nice surprise for her , '' the sister mused jubilantly .
Penelope was surprised as much as the tender , sisterly heart could wish when Doris flashed out upon her triumphantly on the evening of the party with the black skirt nicely pressed and re-hung , and the prettiest waist imaginable -- a waist that was a positive `` creation '' of dainty rose-besprinkled silk , with a girdle and knots of black velvet .
`` Doris Hunter , you are a veritable little witch !
Do you mean to tell me that you conjured that perfectly lovely thing for me out of the lining of Grandmother Hunter's quilt ? ''
So Penelope went to Blanche's party and her dress was the admiration of every girl there .
Mrs. Fairweather , who was visiting Mrs. Anderson , looked closely at it also .
She was a very sweet old lady , with silver hair , which she wore in delightful , old-fashioned puffs , and she had very bright , dark eyes .
Penelope thought her altogether charming .
`` She looks as if she had just stepped out of the frame of some lovely old picture , '' she said to herself .
`` I wish she belonged to me .
I 'd just love to have a grandmother like her .
And I do wonder who it is I've seen who looks so much like her . ''
A little later on the knowledge came to her suddenly , and she thought with inward surprise : Why , it is Doris , of course .
If my sister Doris lives to be seventy years old and wears her hair in pretty white puffs , she will look exactly as Mrs. Fairweather does now .
Mrs. Fairweather asked to have Penelope introduced to her , and when they found themselves alone together she said gently , `` My dear , I am going to ask a very impertinent question .
Will you tell me where you got the silk of which your waist is made ? ''
Poor Penelope's pretty young face turned crimson .
She was not troubled with false pride by any means , but she simply could not bring herself to tell Mrs. Fairweather that her waist was made out of the lining of an old heirloom quilt .
`` My Aunt Adella gave me -- gave us -- the material , '' she stammered .
`` And my elder sister Doris made the waist for me .
I think the silk once belonged to my Grandmother Hunter . ''
`` What was your grandmother's maiden name ? ''
asked Mrs. Fairweather eagerly .
`` Penelope Saverne .
I am named after her . ''
Mrs. Fairweather suddenly put her arm about Penelope and drew the young girl to her , her lovely old face aglow with delight and tenderness .
`` Then you are my grandniece , '' she said .
`` Your grandmother was my half-sister .
When I saw your dress , I felt sure you were related to her .
I should recognize that rosebud silk if I came across it in Thibet .
Penelope Saverne was the daughter of my mother by her first husband .
Penelope was four years older than I was , but we were devoted to each other .
Oddly enough , our birthdays fell on the same day , and when Penelope was twenty and I sixteen , my father gave us each a silk dress of this very material .
I have mine yet .
`` Soon after this our mother died and our household was broken up .
Penelope went to live with her aunt and I went West with Father .
This was long ago , you know , when travelling and correspondence were not the easy , matter-of-course things they are now .
After a few years I lost touch with my half-sister .
I married out West and have lived there all my life .
I never knew what had become of Penelope .
But tonight , when I saw you come in in that waist made of the rosebud silk , the whole past rose before me and I felt like a girl again .
My dear , I am a very lonely old woman , with nobody belonging to me .
You don't know how delighted I am to find that I have two grandnieces . ''
Penelope had listened silently , like a girl in a dream .
Now she patted Mrs. Fairweather's soft old hand affectionately .
`` It sounds like a storybook , '' she said gaily .
`` You must come and see Doris .
She is such a darling sister .
I wouldn't have had this waist if it hadn't been for her .
I will tell you the whole truth -- I don't mind it now .
Doris made my party waist for me out of the lining of an old silk quilt of Grandmother Hunter's that Aunt Adella sent us . ''
Mrs. Fairweather did go to see Doris the very next day , and quite wonderful things came to pass from that interview .
Doris and Penelope found their lives and plans changed in the twinkling of an eye .
They were both to go and live with Aunt Esther -- as Mrs. Fairweather had said they must call her .
Penelope was to have , at last , her longed-for musical education and Doris was to be the home girl .
`` You must take the place of my own dear little granddaughter , '' said Aunt Esther .
`` She died six years ago , and I have been so lonely since . ''
When Mrs. Fairweather had gone , Doris and Penelope looked at each other .
`` Pinch me , please , '' said Penelope .
`` I 'm half afraid I'll wake up and find I have been dreaming .
Isn't it all wonderful , Doris Hunter ? ''
Doris nodded radiantly .
`` Oh , Penelope , think of it !
Music for you -- somebody to pet and fuss over for me -- and such a dear , sweet aunty for us both ! ''
`` And no more contriving party waists out of old silk linings , '' laughed Penelope .
`` But it was very fortunate that you did it for once , sister mine .
And no more poverty puckers , '' she concluded .
