Once upon a time there lived two peasants who had three daughters , and , as generally happens , the youngest was the most beautiful and the best tempered , and when her sisters wanted to go out she was always ready to stay at home and do their work .
Years passed quickly with the whole family , and one day the parents suddenly perceived that all three girls were grown up , and that very soon they would be thinking of marriage .
` Have you decided what your husband's name is to be ? '
said the father , laughingly , to his eldest daughter , one evening when they were all sitting at the door of their cottage .
` You know that is a very important point ! '
` Yes ; I will never wed any man who is not called Sigmund , ' answered she .
` Well , it is lucky for you that there are a great many Sigmunds in this part of the world , ' replied her father , ` so that you can take your choice !
And what do YOU say ? '
he added , turning to the second .
` Oh , I think that there is no name so beautiful as Sigurd , ' cried she .
` Then you won't be an old maid either , ' answered he .
` There are seven Sigurds in the next village alone !
And you , Helga ? '
Helga , who was still the prettiest of the three , looked up .
She also had her favourite name , but , just as she was going to say it , she seemed to hear a voice whisper : ` Marry no one who is not called Habogi . '
The girl had never heard of such a name , and did not like it , so she determined to pay no attention ; but as she opened her mouth to tell her father that her husband must be called Njal , she found herself answering instead : ` If I do marry it will be to no one except Habogi . '
` Who IS Habogi ? '
asked her father and sisters ; ` We never heard of such a person . '
` All I can tell you is that he will be my husband , if ever I have one , ' returned Helga ; and that was all she would say .
Before very long the young men who lived in the neighbouring villages or on the sides of the mountains , had heard of this talk of the three girls , and Sigmunds and Sigurds in scores came to visit the little cottage .
There were other young men too , who bore different names , though not one of them was called ` Habogi , ' and these thought that they might perhaps gain the heart of the youngest .
But though there was more than one ` Njal ' amongst them , Helga's eyes seemed always turned another way .
At length the two elder sisters made their choice from out of the Sigurds and the Sigmunds , and it was decided that both weddings should take place at the same time .
Invitations were sent out to the friends and relations , and when , on the morning of the great day , they were all assembled , a rough , coarse old peasant left the crowd and came up to the brides ' father .
` My name is Habogi , and Helga must be my wife , ' was all he said .
And though Helga stood pale and trembling with surprise , she did not try to run away . '
I can not talk of such things just now , ' answered the father , who could not bear the thought of giving his favourite daughter to this horrible old man , and hoped , by putting it off , that something might happen .
But the sisters , who had always been rather jealous of Helga , were secretly pleased that their bridegrooms should outshine hers .
When the feast was over , Habogi led up a beautiful horse from a field where he had left it to graze , and bade Helga jump up on its splendid saddle , all embroidered in scarlet and gold .
` You shall come back again , ' said he ; ` but now you must see the house that you are to live in . '
And though Helga was very unwilling to go , something inside her forced her to obey .
The old man settled her comfortably , then sprang up in front of her as easily as if he had been a boy , and , shaking the reins , they were soon out of sight .
After some miles they rode through a meadow with grass so green that Helga's eyes felt quite dazzled ; and feeding on the grass were a quantity of large fat sheep , with the curliest and whitest wool in the world .
` What lovely sheep !
whose are they ? '
cried Helga .
` Your Habogi's , ' answered he , ` all that you see belongs to him ; but the finest sheep in the whole herd , which has little golden bells hanging between its horns , you shall have for yourself . '
This pleased Helga very much , for she had never had anything of her own ; and she smiled quite happily as she thanked Habogi for his present .
They soon left the sheep behind them , and entered a large field with a river running through it , where a number of beautiful grey cows were standing by a gate waiting for a milk-maid to come and milk them .
` Oh , what lovely cows ! '
cried Helga again ; ' I am sure their milk must be sweeter than any other cows .
How I should like to have some !
I wonder to whom they belong ? '
` To your Habogi , ' replied he ; ` and some day you shall have as much milk as you like , but we can not stop now .
Do you see that big grey one , with the silver bells between her horns ?
That is to be yours , and you can have her milked every morning the moment you wake . '
And Helga's eyes shone , and though she did not say anything , she thought that she would learn to milk the cow herself .
A mile further on they came to a wide common , with short , springy turf , where horses of all colours , with skins of satin , were kicking up their heels in play .
The sight of them so delighted Helga that she nearly sprang from her saddle with a shriek of joy .
` Whose are they ? '
Oh !
whose are they ? '
she asked .
` How happy any man must be who is the master of such lovely creatures ! '
` They are your Habogi's , ' replied he , ` and the one which you think the most beautiful of all you shall have for yourself , and learn to ride him . '
At this Helga quite forgot the sheep and the cow . '
A horse of my own ! '
said she .
` Oh , stop one moment , and let me see which I will choose .
The white one ?
No .
The chestnut ?
No .
I think , after all , I like the coal-black one best , with the little white star on his forehead .
Oh , do stop , just for a minute . '
But Habogi would not stop or listen .
` When you are married you will have plenty of time to choose one , ' was all he answered , and they rode on two or three miles further .
At length Habogi drew rein before a small house , very ugly and mean-looking , and that seemed on the point of tumbling to pieces .
` This is my house , and is to be yours , ' said Habogi , as he jumped down and held out his arms to lift Helga from the horse .
The girl's heart sank a little , as she thought that the man who possessed such wonderful sheep , and cows , and horses , might have built himself a prettier place to live in ; but she did not say so .
And , taking her arm , he led her up the steps .
But when she got inside , she stood quite bewildered at the beauty of all around her .
None of her friends owned such things , not even the miller , who was the richest man she knew .
There were carpets everywhere , thick and soft , and of deep rich colours ; and the cushions were of silk , and made you sleepy even to look at them ; and curious little figures in china were scattered about .
Helga felt as if it would take her all her life to see everything properly , and it only seemed a second since she had entered the house , when Habogi came up to her . '
I must begin the preparations for our wedding at once , ' he said ; ` but my foster-brother will take you home , as I promised .
In three days he will bring you back here , with your parents and sisters , and any guests you may invite , in your company .
By that time the feast will be ready . '
Helga had so much to think about , that the ride home appeared very short .
Her father and mother were delighted to see her , as they did not feel sure that so ugly and cross-looking a man as Habogi might not have played her some cruel trick .
And after they had given her some supper they begged her to tell them all she had done .
But Helga only told them that they should see for themselves on the third day , when they would come to her wedding .
It was very early in the morning when the party set out , and Helga's two sisters grew green with envy as they passed the flocks of sheep , and cows , and horses , and heard that the best of each was given to Helga herself ; but when they caught sight of the poor little house which was to be her home their hearts grew light again . '
I should be ashamed of living in such a place , ' whispered each to the other ; and the eldest sister spoke of the carved stone over HER doorway , and the second boasted of the number of rooms SHE had .
But the moment they went inside they were struck dumb with rage at the splendour of everything , and their faces grew white and cold with fury when they saw the dress which Habogi had prepared for his bride -- a dress that glittered like sunbeams dancing upon ice .
` She SHALL not look so much finer than us , ' they cried passionately to each other as soon as they were alone ; and when night came they stole out of their rooms , and taking out the wedding-dress , they laid it in the ash-pit , and heaped ashes upon it .
But Habogi , who knew a little magic , and had guessed what they would do , changed the ashes into roses , and cast a spell over the sisters , so that they could not leave the spot for a whole day , and every one who passed by mocked at them .
The next morning when they all awoke the ugly tumble-down house had disappeared , and in its place stood a splendid palace .
The guests ' eyes sought in vain for the bridegroom , but could only see a handsome young man , with a coat of blue velvet and silver and a gold crown upon his head .
` Who is that ? '
they asked Helga .
` That is my Habogi , ' said she .
