The Shifty Lad In the land of Erin there dwelt long ago a widow who had an only son .
He was a clever boy , so she saved up enough money to send him to school , and , as soon as he was old enough , to apprentice him to any trade that he would choose .
But when the time came , he said he would not be bound to any trade , and that he meant to be a thief .
Now his mother was very sorrowful when she heard of this , but she knew quite well that if she tried to stop his having his own way he would only grow more determined to get it .
So all the answer she made was that the end of thieves was hanging at the bridge of Dublin , and then she left him alone , hoping that when he was older he might become more sensible .
One day she was going to church to hear a sermon from a great preacher , and she begged the Shifty Lad , as the neighbours called him from the tricks he played , to come with her .
But he only laughed and declared that he did not like sermons , adding : ` However , I will promise you this , that the first trade you hear named after you come out from church shall be my trade for the rest of my life . '
These words gave a little comfort to the poor woman , and her heart was lighter than before as she bade him farewell .
When the Shifty Lad thought that the hour had nearly come for the sermon to be over , he hid himself in some bushes in a little path that led straight to his mother's house , and , as she passed along , thinking of all the good things she had heard , a voice shouted close to her ear ` Robbery !
Robbery !
Robbery ! '
The suddenness of it made her jump .
The naughty boy had managed to change his voice , so that she did not know it for his , and he had concealed himself so well that , though she peered about all round her , she could see no one .
As soon as she had turned the corner the Shifty Lad came out , and by running very fast through the wood he contrived to reach home before his mother , who found him stretched out comfortably before the fire .
` Well , have you got any news to tell me ? '
asked he .
` No , nothing ; for I left the church at once , and did not stop to speak to anyone . '
` Oh , then no one has mentioned a trade to you ? '
he said in tones of disappointment .
` Ye -- es , ' she replied slowly .
` At least , as I walked down the path a voice cried out `` Robbery !
Robbery !
Robbery ! ''
but that was all . '
` And quite enough too , ' answered the boy .
` What did I tell you ?
That is going to be my trade . '
` Then your end will be hanging at the bridge of Dublin , ' said she .
But there was no sleep for her that night , for she lay in the dark thinking about her son .
` If he is to be a thief at all , he had better be a good one .
And who is there that can teach him ? '
the mother asked herself .
But an idea came to her , and she arose early , before the sun was up , and set off for the home of the Black Rogue , or Gallows Bird , who was such a wonderful thief that , though all had been robbed by him , no one could catch him .
` Good-morning to you , ' said the woman as she reached the place where the Black Gallows Bird lived when he was not away on his business .
` My son has a fancy to learn your trade .
Will you be kind enough to teach him ? '
` If he is clever , I don't mind trying , ' answered the Black Gallows Bird ; ` and , of course , if ANY one can turn him into a first-rate thief , it is I .
But if he is stupid , it is of no use at all ; I can't bear stupid people . '
` No , he isn't stupid , ' said the woman with a sigh .
` So to-night , after dark , I will send him to you . '
The Shifty Lad jumped for joy when his mother told him where she had been . '
I will become the best thief in all Erin ! '
he cried , and paid no heed when his mother shook her head and murmured something about ` the bridge of Dublin . '
Every evening after dark the Shifty Lad went to the home of the Black Gallows Bird , and many were the new tricks he learned .
By-and-by he was allowed to go out with the Bird and watch him at work , and at last there came a day when his master though that he had grown clever enough to help in a big robbery .
` There is a rich farmer up there on the hill , who has just sold all his fat cattle for much money and has bought some lean ones which will cost him little .
Now it happens that , while he has received the money for the fat cattle , he has not yet paid the price of the thin ones , which he has in the cowhouse .
To-morrow he will go to the market with the money in his hand , so to-night we must get at the chest .
When all is quiet we will hide in the loft . '
There was no moon , and it was the night of Hallowe'en , and everyone was burning nuts and catching apples in a tub of water with their hands tied , and playing all sorts of other games , till the Shifty Lad grew quite tired of waiting for them to get to bed .
The Black Gallows Bird , who was more accustomed to the business , tucked himself up on the hay and went to sleep , telling the boy to wake him when the merry-makers had departed .
But the Shifty Lad , who could keep still no longer , crept down to the cowshed and loosened the heads of the cattle which were tied , and they began to kick each other and bellow , and made such a noise that the company in the farmhouse ran out to tie them up again .
Then the Shifty Lad entered the room and picked up a big handful of nuts , and returned to the loft , where the Black Rogue was still sleeping .
At first the Shifty Lad shut his eyes too , but very soon he sat up , and taking a big needle and thread from his pocket , he sewed the hem of the Black Gallows Bird's coat to a heavy piece of bullock's hide that was hanging at his back .
By this time the cattle were all tied up again , but as the people could not find their nuts they sat round the fire and began to tell stories . '
I will crack a nut , ' said the Shifty Lad .
` You shall not , ' cried the Black Gallows Bird ; ` they will hear you . ' '
I don't care , ' answered the Shifty Lad . '
I never spend Hallowe'en yet without cracking a nut ' ; and he cracked one .
` Some one is cracking nuts up there , ' said one of the merry-makers in the farmhouse .
` Come quickly , and we will see who it is . '
He spoke loudly , and the Black Gallows Bird heard , and ran out of the loft , dragging the big leather hide after him which the Shifty Lad had sewed to his coat .
` He is stealing my hide ! '
shouted the farmer , and they all darted after him ; but he was too swift for them , and at last he managed to tear the hide from his coat , and then he flew like a hare till he reached his old hiding-place .
But all this took a long time , and meanwhile the Shifty Lad got down from the loft , and searched the house till he found the chest with the gold and silver in it , concealed behind a load of straw and covered with loaves of bread and a great cheese .
The Shifty Lad slung the money bags round his shoulders and took the bread and the cheese under his arm , then set out quietly for the Black Rogue's house .
` Here you are at last , you villain ! '
cried his master in great wrath .
` But I will be revenged on you . '
` It is all right , ' replied the Shifty Lad calmly . '
I have brought what you wanted ' ; and he laid the things he was carrying down on the ground .
` Ah !
you are the better thief , ' said the Black Rogue's wife ; and the Black Rogue added : ` Yes , it is you who are the clever boy ' ; and they divided the spoil and the Black Gallows Bird had one half and the Shifty Lad the other half .
A few weeks after that the Black Gallows Bird had news of a wedding that was to be held near the town ; and the bridegroom had many friends and everybody sent him a present .
Now a rich farmer who lived up near the moor thought that nothing was so useful to a young couple when they first began to keep house as a fine fat sheep , so he bade his shepherd go off to the mountain where the flock were feeding , and bring him back the best he could find .
And the shepherd chose out the largest and fattest of the sheep and the one with the whitest fleece ; then he tied its feet together and put it across his shoulder , for he had a long way to go .
That day , the Shifty Lad happened to be wandering over the moor , when he saw the man with the sheep on his shoulder walking along the road which led past the Black Rogue's house .
The sheep was heavy and the man was in no hurry , so he came slowly and the boy knew that he himself could easily get back to his master before the shepherd was even in sight . '
I will wager , ' he cried , as he pushed quickly through the bushes which hid the cabin -- ' I will wager that I will steal the sheep from the man that is coming before he passes here . '
` Will you indeed ? '
said the Gallows Bird . '
I will wager you a hundred silver pieces that you can do nothing of the sort . '
` Well , I will try it , anyway , ' replied the boy , and disappeared in the bushes .
He ran fast till he entered a wood through which the shepherd must go , and then he stopped , and taking off one of his shoes smeared it with mud and set it in the path .
When this was done he slipped behind a rock and waited .
Very soon the man came up , and seeing the shoe lying there , he stooped and looked at it .
` It is a good shoe , ' he said to himself , ` but very dirty .
Still , if I had the fellow , I would be at the trouble of cleaning it ' ; so he threw the shoe down again and went on .
The Shifty Lad smiled as he heard him , and , picking up the shoe , he crept round by a short way and laid the other shoe on the path .
A few minutes after the shepherd arrived , and beheld the second shoe lying on the path .
` Why , that is the fellow of the dirty shoe ! '
he exclaimed when he saw it . '
I will go back and pick up the other one , and then I shall have a pair of good shoes , ' and he put the sheep on the grass and returned to fetch the shoe .
Then the Shifty Lad put on his shoes , and , picking up the sheep , carried it home .
And the Black Rogue paid him the hundred marks of his wager .
When the shepherd reached the farmhouse that night he told his tale to his master , who scolded him for being stupid and careless , and bade him go the next day to the mountain and fetch him a kid , and he would send that as a wedding gift .
But the Shifty Lad was on the look-out , and hid himself in the wood , and the moment the man drew near with the kid on his shoulders began to bleat like a sheep , and no one , not even the sheep's own mother , could have told the difference .
` Why , it must have got its feet loose , and have strayed after all , ' thought the man ; and he put the kid on the grass and hurried off in the direction of the bleating .
Then the boy ran back and picked up the kid , and took it to the Black Gallows Bird .
The shepherd could hardly believe his eyes when he returned from seeking the sheep and found that the kid had vanished .
He was afraid to go home and tell the same tale that he had told yesterday ; so he searched the wood through and through till night was nearly come .
Then he felt that there was no help for it , and he must go home and confess to his master .
Of course , the farmer was very angry at this second misfortune ; but this time he told him to drive one of the big bulls from the mountain , and warned him that if he lost THAT he would lose his place also .
Again the Shifty Lad , who was on the watch , perceived him pass by , and when he saw the man returning with the great bull he cried to the Black Rogue : ` Be quick and come into the wood , and we will try to get the bull also . '
` But how can we do that ? '
asked the Black Rogue .
` Oh , quite easily !
You hide yourself out there and baa like a sheep , and I will go in the other direction and bleat like a kid .
It will be all right , I assure you . '
The shepherd was walking slowly , driving the bull before him , when he suddenly heard a loud baa amongst the bushes far away on one side of the path , and a feeble bleat answering it from the other side .
` Why , it must be the sheep and the kid that I lost , ' said he .
` Yes , surely it must ' ; and tying the bull hastily to a tree , he went off after the sheep and the kid , and searched the wood till he was tired .
Of course by the time he came back the two thieves had driven the bull home and killed him for meat , so the man was obliged to go to his master and confess that he had been tricked again .
After this the Black Rogue and the Shifty Lad grew bolder and bolder , and stole great quantities of cattle and sold them and grew quite rich .
One day they were returning from the market with a large sum of money in their pockets when they passed a gallows erected on the top of a hill .
` Let us stop and look at that gallows , ' exclaimed the Shifty Lad . '
I have never seen one so close before .
Yet some say that it is the end of all thieves . '
There was no one in sight , and they carefully examined every part of it . '
I wonder how it feels to be hanged , ' said the Shifty Lad . '
I should like to know , in case they ever catch me .
I'll try first , and then you can do so . '
As he spoke he fastened the loose cord about his neck , and when it was quite secure he told the Black Rogue to take the other end of the rope and draw him up from the ground .
` When I am tired of it I will shake my legs , and then you must let me down , ' said he .
The Black Rogue drew up the rope , but in half a minute the Shifty Lad's legs began to shake , and he quickly let it down again .
` You can't imagine what a funny feeling hanging gives you , ' murmured the Shifty Lad , who looked rather purple in the face and spoke in an odd voice . '
I don't think you have every tried it , or you wouldn't have let me go up first .
Why , it is the pleasantest thing I have ever done .
I was shaking my legs from sheer delight , and if you had been there you would have shaken your legs too . '
` Well , let me try , if it is so nice , ' answered the Black Rogue .
` But be sure you tie the knot securely , for I don't want to fall down and break my neck . '
` Oh , I will see to that ! '
replied the Shifty Lad .
` When you are tired , just whistle , and I'll let you down . '
So the Black Rogue was drawn up , and as soon as he was as high as the rope would allow him to go the Shifty Lad called to him : ` Don't forest to whistle when you want to come down ; but if you are enjoying yourself as I did , shake your legs . '
And in a moment the Black Rogue's legs began to shake and to kick , and the Shifty Lad stood below , watching him and laughing heartily .
` Oh , how funny you are !
If you could only see yourself !
Oh , you ARE funny !
But when you have had enough , whistle and you shall be let down ' ; and he rocked again with laughter .
But no whistle came , and soon the legs ceased to shake and to kick , for the Black Gallows Bird was dead , as the Shifty Lad intended he should be .
Then he went home to the Black Rogue's wife , and told her that her husband was dead , and that he was ready to marry her if she liked .
But the woman had been fond of the Black Rogue , thief though he was , and she shrank from the Shifty Lad in horror , and set the people after him , and he had to fly to another part of the country where none knew of his doings .
Perhaps if the Shifty Lad's mother knew anything of this , she may have thought that by this time her son might be tired of stealing , and ready to try some honest trade .
But in reality he loved the tricks and danger , and life would have seemed very dull without them .
So he went on just as before , and made friends whom he taught to be as wicked as himself , till they took to robbing the king's storehouses , and by the advice of the Wise Man the king sent out soldiers to catch the band of thieves .
For a long while they tried in vain to lay hands on them .
The Shifty Lad was too clever for them all , and if they laid traps he laid better ones .
At last one night he stole upon some soldiers while they were asleep in a barn and killed them , and persuaded the villagers that if THEY did not kill the other soldiers before morning they would certainly be killed themselves .
Thus it happened that when the sun rose not a single soldier was alive in the village .
Of course this news soon reached the king's ears , and he was very angry , and summoned the Wise Man to take counsel with him .
And this was the counsel of the Wise Man -- that he should invite all the people in the countryside to a ball , and among them the bold and impudent thief would be sure to come , and would be sure to ask the king's daughter to dance with him .
` Your counsel is good , ' said the king , who made his feast and prepared for his ball ; and all the people of the countryside were present , and the Shifty Lad came with them .
When everyone had eaten and drunk as much as they wanted they went into the ballroom .
There was a great throng , and while they were pressing through the doorway the Wise Man , who had a bottle of black ointment hidden in his robes , placed a tiny dot on the cheek of the Shifty Lad near his ear .
The Shifty Lad felt nothing , but as he approached the king's daughter to ask her to be his partner he caught sight of the black dot in a silver mirror .
Instantly he guessed who had put it there and why , but he said nothing , and danced so beautifully that the princess was quite delighted with him .
At the end of the dance he bowed low to his partner and left her , to mingle with the crowd that was filling the doorway .
As he passed the Wise Man he contrived not only to steal the bottle but to place two black dots on his face , and one on the faces of twenty other men .
Then he slipped the bottle back in the Wise Man's robe .
By-and-by he went up to the king's daughter again , and begged for the honour of another dance .
She consented , and while he was stooping to tie the ribbons on his shoe she took out from her pocket another bottle , which the Wizard had given her , and put a black dot on his cheek .
But she was not as skilful as the Wise Man , and the Shifty Lad felt the touch of her fingers ; so as soon as the dance was over he contrived to place a second black dot on the faces of the twenty men and two more on the Wizard , after which he slipped the bottle into her pocket .
At length the ball came to an end , and then the king ordered all the doors to be shut , and search made for a man with two black dots on his cheek .
The chamberlain went among the guests , and soon found such a man , but just as he was going to arrest him and bring him before the king his eye fell on another with the same mark , and another , and another , till he had counted twenty -- besides the Wise Man -- on whose face were found spots .
Not knowing what to do , the chamberlain hurried back with his tale to the king , who immediately sent for the Wise Man , and then for his daughter .
` The thief must have stolen your bottle , ' said the king to the Wizard .
` No , my lord , it is here , ' answered the Wise Man , holding it out .
` Then he must have got yours , ' he cried , turning to his daughter .
` Indeed , father , it is safe in my pocket , ' replied she , taking it out as she spoke ; and they all three looked at each other and remained silent .
` Well , ' said the king at last , ` the man who has done this is cleverer than most men , and if he will make himself known to me he shall marry the princess and govern half my kingdom while I am alive , and the whole of it when I am dead .
Go and announce this in the ballroom , ' he added to an attendant , ` and bring the fellow hither . '
So the attendant went into the ballroom and did as the king had bidden him , when , to his surprise , not one man , but twenty , stepped forward , all with black dots on their faces . '
I am the person you want , ' they all exclaimed at once , and the attendant , as much bewildered as the chamberlain had been , desired them to follow him into the king's presence .
But the question was too difficult for the king to decide , so he called together his council .
For hours they talked , but to no purpose , and in the end they hit upon a plan which they might just as well have thought of at the beginning .
And this was the plan .
A child was to be brought to the palace , and next the king's daughter would give her an apple .
Then the child was to take the apple and be led into a room where the twenty men with the black dots were sitting in a ring .
And to whomsoever the child gave the apple , that man should marry the king's daughter .
` Of course , ' said the king , ` it may not be the right man , after all , but then again it MAY be .
Anyhow , it is the best we can do . '
The princess herself led the child into the room where the twenty men were now seated .
She stood in the centre of the ring for a moment , looking at one man after another , and then held out the apple to the Shifty Lad , who was twisting a shaving of wood round his finger , and had the mouthpiece of a bagpipe hanging from his neck .
` You ought not to have anything which the others have not got , ' said the chamberlain , who had accompanied the princess ; and he bade the child stand outside for a minute , while he took away the shaving and the mouthpiece , and made the Shifty Lad change his place .
Then he called the child in , but the little girl knew him again , and went straight up to him with the apple .
` This is the man whom the child has twice chosen , ' said the chamberlain , signing to the Shifty Lad to kneel before the king .
` It was all quite fair ; we tried it twice over . '
In this way the Shifty Lad won the king's daughter , and they were married the next day .
A few days later the bride and bridegroom were taking a walk together , and the path led down to the river , and over the river was a bridge .
` And what bridge may this be ? '
asked the Shifty Lad ; and the princess told him that this was the bridge of Dublin .
` Is it indeed ? '
cried he .
` Well , now , many is the time that my mother has said , when I played her a trick , that my end would be that I should hang on the bridge of Dublin . '
` Oh , if you want to fulfil her prophecies , ' laughed the princess , ` you have only to let me tie my handkerchief round your ankle , and I will hold you as you hang over the wall of the bridge . '
` That would be fine fun , ' said he ; ` but you are not strong enough to hold me up . '
` Oh , yes , I am , ' said the princess ; ` just try . '
So at last he let her bind the handkerchief round his ankle and hang him over the wall , and they both laughed and jested at the strength of the princess .
` Now pull me up again , ' called he ; but as he spoke a great cry arose that the palace was burning .
The princess turned round with a start , and let go her handkerchief , and the Shifty Lad fell , and struck his head on a stone , and died in an instant .
So his mother's prophecy had come true , after all .
West Highland Tales .
The False Prince and the True The king had just awakened from his midday sleep , for it was summer , and everyone rose early and rested from twelve to three , as they do in hot countries .
He had dressed himself in cool white clothes , and was passing through the hall on his way to the council chamber , when a number of young nobles suddenly appeared before him , and one amongst them stepped forward and spoke .
` Sire , this morning we were all playing tennis in the court , the prince and this gentleman with the rest , when there broke out some dispute about the game .
The prince lost his temper , and said many insulting things to the other , who was playing against him , till at length the gentleman whom you see there struck him violently in the face , so that the blood ran from his mouth and nose .
We were all so horrified at the sight , that we should most likely have killed the man then and there , for daring to lay hands on the prince , had not his grandfather the duke stepped between and commanded us to lay the affair before you . '
The king had listened attentively to the story , and when it was ended he said : ' I suppose the prince had no arms with him , or else he would have used them ? '
` Yes , sire , he had arms ; he always carries a dagger in his belt .
But when he saw the blood pouring from his face , he went to a corner of the court and began to cry , which was the strangest thing of all . '
On hearing this the king walked to the window and stood for a few minutes with his back to the room , where the company of young men remained silent .
Then he came back , his face white and stern . '
I tell you , ' he said , ` and it is the solemn truth , that I would rather you had told me that the prince was dead , though he is my only son , than know that he would suffer such an injury without attempting to avenge it .
As for the gentleman who struck him , he will be brought before my judges , and will plead his own cause , but I hardly think he can escape death , after having assaulted the heir to the crown . '
The young man raised his head as if to reply , but the king would not listen , and commanded his guards to put him under arrest , adding , however , that if the prisoner wished to visit any part of the city , he was at liberty to do so properly guarded , and in fifteen days he would be brought to trial before the highest judges in the land .
The young man left the king's presence , surrounded by soldiers , and accompanied by many of his friends , for he was a great favourite .
By their advice he spent the fourteen days that remained to him going about to seek counsel from wise men of all sorts , as to how he might escape death , but no one could help him , for none could find any excuse for the blow he had given to the prince .
The fourteenth night had come , and in despair the prisoner went out to take his last walk through the city .
He wandered on hardly knowing where he went , and his face was so white and desperate that none of his companions dared speak to him .
The sad little procession had passed some hours in this manner , when , near the gate of a monastery , an old woman appeared round a corner , and suddenly stood before the young man .
She was bent almost double , and was so wizened and wrinkled that she looked at least ninety ; only her eyes were bright and quick as those of a girl .
` Sir , ' she said , ' I know all that has happened to you , and how you are seeking if in any wise you can save your life .
But there is none that can answer that question save only I myself , if you will promise to do all I ask . '
At her words the prisoner felt as if a load had all at once been rolled off him .
` Oh , save me , and I will do anything ! '
he cried .
` It is so hard to leave the world and go out into the darkness . '
` You will not need to do that , ' answered the old woman , ` you have only got to marry me , and you will soon be free . '
` Marry you ? '
exclaimed he , ` but -- but -- I am not yet twenty , and you -- why , you must be a hundred at least !
Oh , no , it is quite impossible . '
He spoke without thinking , but the flash of anger which darted from her eyes made him feel uncomfortable .
However , all she said was : ` As you like ; since you reject me , let the crows have you , ' and hurried away down the street .
Left to himself , the full horror of his coming death rushed upon the young man , and he understood that he had thrown away his sole chance of life .
Well , if he must , he must , he said to himself , and began to run as fast as he could after the old crone , who by this time could scarcely be seen , even in the moonlight .
Who would have believed a woman past ninety could walk with such speed ?
It seemed more like flying !
But at length , breathless and exhausted , he reached her side , and gasped out : ` Madam , pardon me for my hasty words just now ; I was wrong , and will thankfully accept the offer you made me . '
` Ah , I thought you would come to your senses , ' answered she , in rather an odd voice .
` We have no time to lose -- follow me at once , ' and they went on silently and swiftly till they stopped at the door of a small house in which the priest lived .
Before him the old woman bade the prisoner swear that she should be his wife , and this he did in the presence of witnesses .
Then , begging the priest and the guards to leave them alone for a little , she told the young man what he was to do , when the next morning he was brought before the king and the judges .
The hall was full to overflowing when the prisoner entered it , and all marvelled at the brightness of his face .
The king inquired if he had any excuse to plead for the high treason he had committed by striking the heir to the throne , and , if so , to be quick in setting it forth .
With a low bow the youth made answer in a clear voice : ' O my lord and gracious king , and you , nobles and wise men of the land , I leave my cause without fear in your hands , knowing that you will listen and judge rightly , and that you will suffer me to speak to the end , before you give judgment .
` For four years , you , O king , had been married to the queen and yet had no children , which grieved you greatly .
The queen saw this , and likewise that your love was going from her , and thought night and day of some plan that might put an end to this evil .
At length , when you were away fighting in distant countries , she decided what she would do , and adopted in secret the baby of a poor quarryman , sending a messenger to tell you that you had a son .
No one suspected the truth except a priest to whom the queen confessed the truth , and in a few weeks she fell ill and died , leaving the baby to be brought up as became a prince .
And now , if your highness will permit me , I will speak of myself . '
` What you have already told me , ' answered the king , ` is so strange that I can not imagine what more there is to tell , but go on with your story . '
` One day , shortly after the death of the queen , ' continued the young man , ` your highness was hunting , and outstripped all your attendants while chasing the deer .
You were in a part of the country which you did not know , so seeing an orchard all pink and white with apple-blossoms , and a girl tossing a ball in one corner , you went up to her to ask your way .
But when she turned to answer you , you were so struck with her beauty that all else fled from your mind .
Again and again you rode back to see her , and at length persuaded her to marry you .
She only thought you a poor knight , and agreed that as you wished it , the marriage should be kept secret .
` After the ceremony you gave her three rings and a charm with a cross on it , and then put her in a cottage in the forest , thinking to hide the matter securely .
` For some months you visited the cottage every week ; but a rebellion broke out in a distant part of the kingdom , and called for your presence .
When next you rode up to the cottage , it was empty , and none could inform you whither your bride had gone .
That , sire , I can now tell you , ' and the young man paused and looked at the king , who coloured deeply .
` She went back to her father the old duke , once your chamberlain , and the cross on her breast revealed at once who you were .
Fierce was his anger when he heard his daughter's tale , and he vowed that he would hide her safely from you , till the day when you would claim her publicly as your queen .
` By and bye I was born , and was brought up by my grandfather in one of his great houses .
Here are the rings you gave to my mother , and here is the cross , and these will prove if I am your son or not . '
As he spoke the young man laid the jewels at the feet of the king , and the nobles and the judges pressed round to examine them .
The king alone did not move from his seat , for he had forgotten the hall of justice and all about him , and saw only the apple-orchard , as it was twenty years ago , and the beautiful girl playing at ball .
A sudden silence round him made him look up , and he found the eyes of the assembly fixed on him .
` It is true ; it is he who is my son , and not the other , ' he said with an effort , ` and let every man present swear to acknowledge him as king , after my death . '
Therefore one by one they all knelt before him and took the oath , and a message was sent to the false prince , forbidding him ever again to appear at court , though a handsome pension was granted him .
At last the ceremony was over , and the king , signing to his newly found son to follow him , rose and went into another room .
` Tell me how you knew all that , ' he said , throwing himself into a carved chair filled with crimson cushions , and the prince told of his meeting with the old woman who had brought him the jewels from his mother , and how he had sworn before a priest to marry her , though he did not want to do it , on account of the difference in their ages , and besides , he would rather receive a bride chosen by the king himself .
But the king frowned , and answered sharply : ` You swore to marry her if she saved your life , and , come what may , you must fulfil your promise . '
Then , striking a silver shield that hung close by , he said to the equerry who appeared immediately : ` Go and seek the priest who lives near the door of the prison , and ask him where you can find the old woman who visited him last night ; and when you have found her , bring her to the palace . '
It took some time to discover the whereabouts of the old woman , but at length it was accomplished , and when she arrived at the palace with the equerry , she was received with royal honours , as became the bride of the prince .
The guards looked at each other with astonished eyes , as the wizened creature , bowed with age , passed between their lines ; but they were more amazed still at the lightness of her step as she skipped up the steps to the great door before which the king was standing , with the prince at his side .
If they both felt a shock at the appearance of the aged lady they did not show it , and the king , with a grave bow , took her band , and led her to the chapel , where a bishop was waiting to perform the marriage ceremony .
For the next few weeks little was seen of the prince , who spent all his days in hunting , and trying to forget the old wife at home .
As for the princess , no one troubled himself about her , and she passed the days alone in her apartments , for she had absolutely declined the services of the ladies-in-waiting whom the king had appointed for her .
One night the prince returned after a longer chase than usual , and he was so tired that he went up straight to bed .
Suddenly he was awakened by a strange noise in the room , and suspecting that a robber might have stolen in , he jumped out of bed , and seized his sword , which lay ready to his hand .
Then he perceived that the noise proceeded from the next room , which belonged to the princess , and was lighted by a burning torch .
Creeping softly to the door , he peeped through it , and beheld her lying quietly , with a crown of gold and pearls upon her head , her wrinkles all gone , and her face , which was whiter than the snow , as fresh as that of a girl of fourteen .
Could that really be his wife -- that beautiful , beautiful creature ?
The prince was still gazing in surprise when the lady opened her eyes and smiled at him .
` Yes , I really am your wife , ' she said , as if she had guessed his thoughts , ` and the enchantment is ended .
Now I must tell you who I am , and what befell to cause me to take the shape of an old woman .
` The king of Granada is my father , and I was born in the palace which overlooks the plain of the Vega .
I was only a few months old when a wicked fairy , who had a spite against my parents , cast a spell over me , bending my back and wrinkling my skin till I looked as if I was a hundred years old , and making me such an object of disgust to everyone , that at length the king ordered my nurse to take my away from the palace .
She was the only person who cared about me , and we lived together in this city on a small pension allowed me by the king .
` When I was about three an old man arrived at our house , and begged my nurse to let him come in and rest , as he could walk no longer .
She saw that he was very ill , so put him to bed and took such care of him that by and bye he was as strong as ever .
In gratitude for her goodness to him , he told her that he was a wizard and could give her anything she chose to ask for , except life or death , so she answered that what she longed for most in the world was that my wrinkled skin should disappear , and that I should regain the beauty with which I was born .
To this he replied that as my misfortune resulted from a spell , this was rather difficult , but he would do his best , and at any rate he could promise that before my fifteenth birthday I should be freed from the enchantment if I could get a man who would swear to marry me as I was .
` As you may suppose , this was not easy , as my ugliness was such that no one would look at me a second time .
My nurse and I were almost in despair , as my fifteenth birthday was drawing near , and I had never so much as spoken to a man .
At last we received a visit from the wizard , who told us what had happened at court , and your story , bidding me to put myself in your way when you had lost all hope , and offer to save you if you would consent to marry me .
` That is my history , and now you must beg the king to send messengers at once to Granada , to inform my father of our marriage , and I think , ' she added with a smile , ` that he will not refuse us his blessing . '
Adapted from the Portuguese .
