Bertha Sutherland hurried home from the post office and climbed the stairs of her boarding-house to her room on the third floor .
Her roommate , Grace Maxwell , was sitting on the divan by the window , looking out into the twilight .
A year ago Bertha and Grace had come to Dartmouth to attend the Academy , and found themselves roommates .
Bertha was bright , pretty and popular , the favourite of her classmates and teachers ; Grace was a grave , quiet girl , dressed in mourning .
She was quite alone in the world , the aunt who had brought her up having recently died .
At first she had felt shy with bright and brilliant Bertha ; but they soon became friends , and the year that followed was a very pleasant one .
It was almost ended now , for the terminal exams had begun , and in a week's time the school would close for the holidays .
`` Have some chocolates , Grace , '' said Bertha gaily .
`` I got such good news in my letter tonight that I felt I must celebrate it fittingly .
So I went into Carter's and invested all my spare cash in caramels .
It's really fortunate the term is almost out , for I 'm nearly bankrupt .
I have just enough left to furnish a ` tuck-out ' for commencement night , and no more . ''
`` What is your good news , may I ask ? ''
said Grace .
`` You know I have an Aunt Margaret -- commonly called Aunt Meg -- out at Riversdale , don't you ?
There never was such a dear , sweet , jolly aunty in the world .
I had a letter from her tonight .
Listen , I'll read you what she says . ''
I want you to spend your holidays with me , my dear .
Mary Fairweather and Louise Fyshe and Lily Dennis are coming , too .
So there is just room for one more , and that one must be yourself .
Come to Riversdale when school closes , and I'll feed you on strawberries and cream and pound cake and doughnuts and mince pies , and all the delicious , indigestible things that school girls love and careful mothers condemn .
Mary and Lou and Lil are girls after your own heart , I know , and you shall all do just as you like , and we'll have picnics and parties and merry doings galore .
`` There , '' said Bertha , looking up with a laugh .
`` Isn't that lovely ? ''
`` How delightful it must be to have friends like that to love you and plan for you , '' said Grace wistfully .
`` I am sure you will have a pleasant vacation , Bertie .
As for me , I am going into Clarkman's bookstore until school reopens .
I saw Mr. Clarkman today and he agreed to take me . ''
Bertha looked surprised .
She had not known what Grace's vacation plans were .
`` I don't think you ought to do that , Grace , '' she said thoughtfully .
`` You are not strong , and you need a good rest .
It will be awfully trying to work at Clarkman's all summer . ''
`` There is nothing else for me to do , '' said Grace , trying to speak cheerfully .
`` You know I 'm as poor as the proverbial church mouse , Bertie , and the simple truth is that I can't afford to pay my board all summer and get my winter outfit unless I do something to earn it .
I shall be too busy to be lonesome , and I shall expect long , newsy letters from you , telling me all your fun -- passing your vacation on to me at second-hand , you see .
Well , I must set to work at those algebra problems .
I tried them before dark , but I couldn't solve them .
My head ached and I felt so stupid .
How glad I shall be when exams are over . ''
`` I suppose I must revise that senior English this evening , '' said Bertha absently .
But she made no move to do so .
She was studying her friend's face .
How very pale and thin Grace looked -- surely much paler and thinner than when she had come to the Academy , and she had not by any means been plump and rosy then .
I believe she could not stand two months at Clarkman's , thought Bertha .
If I were not going to Aunt Meg's , I would ask her to go home with me .
Or even if Aunt Meg had room for another guest , I 'd just write her all about Grace and ask if I could bring her with me .
Aunt Meg would understand -- she always understands .
But she hasn't , so it can't be .
Just then a thought darted into Bertha's brain .
`` What nonsense ! ''
she said aloud so suddenly and forcibly that Grace fairly jumped .
`` What is ? ''
`` Oh , nothing much , '' said Bertha , getting up briskly .
`` See here , I 'm going to get to work .
I've wasted enough time . ''
She curled herself up on the divan and tried to study her senior English .
But her thoughts wandered hopelessly , and finally she gave it up in despair and went to bed .
There she could not sleep ; she lay awake and wrestled with herself .
It was after midnight when she sat up in bed and said solemnly , `` I will do it . ''
Next day Bertha wrote a confidential letter to Aunt Meg .
She thanked her for her invitation and then told her all about Grace .
`` And what I want to ask , Aunt Meg , is that you will let me transfer my invitation to Grace , and ask her to go to Riversdale this summer in my place .
Don't think me ungrateful .
No , I 'm sure you won't , you always understand things .
But you can't have us both , and I 'd rather Grace should go .
It will do her so much good , and I have a lovely home of my own to go to , and she has none . ''
Aunt Meg understood , as usual , and was perfectly willing .
So she wrote to Bertha and enclosed a note of invitation for Grace .
I shall have to manage this affair very carefully , reflected Bertha .
Grace must never suspect that I did it on purpose .
I will tell her that circumstances have prevented me from accepting Aunt Meg's invitation .
That is true enough -- no need to say that the circumstances are hers , not mine .
And I'll say I just asked Aunt Meg to invite her in my place and that she has done so .
When Grace came home from her history examination that day , Bertha told her story and gave her Aunt Meg's cordial note .
`` You must come to me in Bertha's place , '' wrote the latter .
`` I feel as if I knew you from her letters , and I will consider you as a sort of honorary niece , and I'll treat you as if you were Bertha herself . ''
`` Isn't it splendid of Aunt Meg ? ''
said Bertha diplomatically .
`` Of course you'll go , Gracie . ''
`` Oh , I don't know , '' said Grace in bewilderment .
`` Are you sure you don't want to go , Bertha ? ''
`` Indeed , I do want to go , dreadfully , '' said Bertha frankly .
`` But as I've told you , it is impossible .
But if I am disappointed , Aunt Meg musn't be .
You must go , Grace , and that is all there is about it . ''
In the end , Grace did go , a little puzzled and doubtful still , but thankful beyond words to escape the drudgery of the counter and the noise and heat of the city .
Bertha went home , feeling a little bit blue in secret , it can not be denied , but also feeling quite sure that if she had to do it all over again , she would do just the same .
The summer slipped quickly by , and finally two letters came to Bertha , one from Aunt Meg and one from Grace .
`` I've had a lovely time , '' wrote the latter , `` and , oh , Bertie , what do you think ?
I am to stay here always .
Oh , of course I am going back to school next month , but this is to be my home after this .
Aunt Meg -- she makes me call her that -- says I must stay with her for good . ''
In Aunt Meg's letter was this paragraph : Grace is writing to you , and will have told you that I intend to keep her here .
You know I have always wanted a daughter of my own , but my greedy brothers and sisters would never give me one of theirs .
So I intend to adopt Grace .
She is the sweetest girl in the world , and I am very grateful to you for sending her here .
You will not know her when you see her .
She has grown plump and rosy .
Bertha folded her letters up with a smile .
`` I have a vague , delightful feeling that I am the good angel in a storybook , '' she said .
