In a very cold country , far across the seas , where ice and snow cover the ground for many months in the year , there lived a little hare , who , as his father and mother were both dead , was brought up by his grandmother .
As he was too young , and she was too old , to work , they were very poor , and often did not have enough to eat .
One day , when the little fellow was hungrier than usual , he asked his grandmother if he might go down to the river and catch a fish for their breakfast , as the thaw had come and the water was flowing freely again .
She laughed at him for thinking that any fish would let itself be caught by a hare , especially such a young one ; but as she had the rheumatism very badly , and could get no food herself , she let him go .
` If he does not catch a fish he may find something else , ' she said to herself .
So she told her grandson where to look for the net , and how he was to set it across the river ; but just as he was starting , feeling himself quite a man , she called him back .
` After all , I don't know what is the use of your going , my boy !
For even if you should catch a fish , I have no fire to cook it with . '
` Let me catch my fish , and I will soon make you a fire , ' he answered gaily , for he was young , and knew nothing about the difficulties of fire-making .
It took him some time to haul the net through bushes and over fields , but at length he reached a pool in the river which he had often heard was swarming with fish , and here he set the net , as his grandmother had directed him .
He was so excited that he hardly slept all night , and at the very first streak of dawn he ran as fast as ever he could down to the river .
His heart beat as quickly as if he had had dogs behind him , and he hardly dared to look , lest he should be disappointed .
Would there be even one fish ?
And at this thought the pangs of hunger made him feel quite sick with fear .
But he need not have been afraid ; in every mesh of the net was a fine fat fish , and of course the net itself was so heavy that he could only lift one corner .
He threw some of the fish back into the water , and buried some more in a hole under a stone , where he would be sure to find them .
Then he rolled up the net with the rest , put it on his back and carried it home .
The weight of the load caused his back to ache , and he was thankful to drop it outside their hut , while he rushed in , full of joy , to tell his grandmother .
` Be quick and clean them ! '
he said , ` and I will go to those people's tents on the other side of the water . '
The old woman stared at him in horror as she listened to his proposal .
Other people had tried to steal fire before , and few indeed had come back with their lives ; but as , contrary to all her expectations , he had managed to catch such a number of fish , she thought that perhaps there was some magic about him which she did not know of , and did not try to hinder him .
When the fish were all taken out , he fetched the net which he had laid out to dry , folded it up very small , and ran down to the river , hoping that he might find a place narrow enough for him to jump over ; but he soon saw that it was too wide for even the best jumper in the world .
For a few moments he stood there , wondering what was to be done , then there darted into his head some words of a spell which he had once heard a wizard use , while drinking from the river .
He repeated them , as well as he could remember , and waited to see what would happen .
In five minutes such a grunting and a puffing was heard , and columns of water rose into the air , though he could not tell what had made them .
Then round the bend of the stream came fifteen huge whales , which he ordered to place themselves heads to tails , like stepping stones , so that he could jump from one to the other till he landed on the opposite shore .
Directly he got there he told the whales that he did not need them any more , and sat down in the sand to rest .
Unluckily some children who were playing about caught sight of him , and one of them , stealing softly up behind him , laid tight hold of his ears .
The hare , who had been watching the whales as they sailed down the river , gave a violent start , and struggled to get away ; but the boy held on tight , and ran back home , as fast as he could go .
` Throw it in the pot , ' said the old woman , as soon as he had told his story ; ` put it in that basket , and as soon as the water boils in the pot we will hang it over the fire ! '
` Better kill it first , ' said the old man ; and the hare listened , horribly frightened , but still looking secretly to see if there was no hole through which he could escape , if he had a chance of doing so .
Yes , there was one , right in the top of the tent , so , shaking himself , as if with fright , he let the end of his net unroll itself a little . '
I wish that a spark of fire would fall on my net , ' whispered he ; and the next minute a great log fell forward into the midst of the tent , causing every one to spring backwards .
The sparks were scattered in every direction , and one fell on the net , making a little blaze .
In an instant the hare had leaped through the hole , and was racing towards the river , with men , women , and children after him .
There was no time to call back the whales , so , holding the net tight in his mouth , he wished himself across the river .
Then he jumped high into the air , and landed safe on the other side , and after turning round to be sure that there was no chance of anyone pursuing him , trotted happily home to his grandmother .
` Didn't I tell you I would bring you fire ? '
said he , holding up his net , which was now burning briskly .
` But how did you cross the water ? '
inquired the old woman .
` Oh , I just jumped ! '
said he .
And his grandmother asked him no more questions , for she saw that he was wiser than she .
