Mrs. Longworth crossed the hotel piazza , descended the steps , and walked out of sight down the shore road with all the grace of motion that lent distinction to her slightest movement .
Her eyes were very bright , and an unusual flush stained the pallor of her cheek .
Two men who were lounging in one corner of the hotel piazza looked admiringly after her .
`` She is a beautiful woman , '' said one .
`` Wasn't there some talk about Mrs. Longworth and Cunningham last winter ? ''
asked the other .
`` Yes .
They were much together .
Still , there may have been nothing wrong .
She was old Judge Carmody's daughter , you know .
Longworth got Carmody under his thumb in money matters and put the screws on .
They say he made Carmody's daughter the price of the old man's redemption .
The girl herself was a mere child , I shall never forget her face on her wedding day .
But she's been plucky since then , I must say .
If she has suffered , she hasn't shown it .
I don't suppose Longworth ever ill-treats her .
He isn't that sort .
He's simply a grovelling cad -- that's all .
Nobody would sympathise much with the poor devil if his wife did run off with Cunningham . ''
Meanwhile , Beatrice Longworth walked quickly down the shore road , her white skirt brushing over the crisp golden grasses by the way .
In a sunny hollow among the sandhills she came upon Stephen Gordon , sprawled out luxuriously in the warm , sea-smelling grasses .
The youth sprang to his feet at sight of her , and his big brown eyes kindled to a glow .
Mrs. Longworth smiled to him .
They had been great friends all summer .
He was a lanky , overgrown lad of fifteen or sixteen , odd and shy and dreamy , scarcely possessing a speaking acquaintance with others at the hotel .
But he and Mrs. Longworth had been congenial from their first meeting .
In many ways , he was far older than his years , but there was a certain inerradicable boyishness about him to which her heart warmed .
`` You are the very person I was just going in search of .
I've news to tell .
Sit down . ''
He spoke eagerly , patting the big gray boulder beside him with his slim , brown hand .
For a moment Beatrice hesitated .
She wanted to be alone just then .
But his clever , homely face was so appealing that she yielded and sat down .
Stephen flung himself down again contentedly in the grasses at her feet , pillowing his chin in his palms and looking up at her , adoringly .
`` You are so beautiful , dear lady .
I love to look at you .
Will you tilt that hat a little more over the left eye-brow ?
Yes -- so -- some day I shall paint you . ''
His tone and manner were all simplicity .
`` When you are a great artist , '' said Beatrice , indulgently .
He nodded .
`` Yes , I mean to be that .
I've told you all my dreams , you know .
Now for my news .
I 'm going away to-morrow .
I had a telegram from father to-day . ''
He drew the message from his pocket and flourished it up at her .
`` I 'm to join him in Europe at once .
He is in Rome .
Think of it -- in Rome !
I 'm to go on with my art studies there .
And I leave to-morrow . ''
`` I 'm glad -- and I 'm sorry -- and you know which is which , '' said Beatrice , patting the shaggy brown head .
`` I shall miss you dreadfully , Stephen . ''
`` We have been splendid chums , haven't we ? ''
he said , eagerly .
Suddenly his face changed .
He crept nearer to her , and bowed his head until his lips almost touched the hem of her dress .
`` I 'm glad you came down to-day , '' he went on in a low , diffident voice .
`` I want to tell you something , and I can tell it better here .
I couldn't go away without thanking you .
I'll make a mess of it -- I can never explain things .
But you've been so much to me -- you mean so much to me .
You've made me believe in things I never believed in before .
You -- you -- I know now that there is such a thing as a good woman , a woman who could make a man better , just because he breathed the same air with her . ''
He paused for a moment ; then went on in a still lower tone : `` It's hard when a fellow can't speak of his mother because he can't say anything good of her , isn't it ?
My mother wasn't a good woman .
When I was eight years old she went away with a scoundrel .
It broke father's heart .
Nobody thought I understood , I was such a little fellow .
But I did .
I heard them talking .
I knew she had brought shame and disgrace on herself and us .
And I had loved her so !
Then , somehow , as I grew up , it was my misfortune that all the women I had to do with were mean and base .
They were hirelings , and I hated and feared them .
There was an aunt of mine -- she tried to be good to me in her way .
But she told me a lie , and I never cared for her after I found it out .
And then , father -- we loved each other and were good chums .
But he didn't believe in much either .
He was bitter , you know .
He said all women were alike .
I grew up with that notion .
I didn't care much for anything -- nothing seemed worth while .
Then I came here and met you . ''
He paused again .
Beatrice had listened with a gray look on her face .
It would have startled him had he glanced up , but he did not , and after a moment's silence the halting boyish voice went on : `` You have changed everything for me .
I was nothing but a clod before .
You are not the mother of my body , but you are of my soul .
It was born of you .
I shall always love and reverence you for it .
You will always be my ideal .
If I ever do anything worth while it will be because of you .
In everything I shall ever attempt I shall try to do it as if you were to pass judgment upon it .
You will be a lifelong inspiration to me .
Oh , I am bungling this !
I can't tell you what I feel -- you are so pure , so good , so noble !
I shall reverence all women for your sake henceforth . ''
`` And if , '' said Beatrice , in a very low voice , `` if I were false to your ideal of me -- if I were to do anything that would destroy your faith in me -- something weak or wicked -- '' `` But you couldn't , '' he interrupted , flinging up his head and looking at her with his great dog-like eyes , `` you couldn't ! ''
`` But if I could ? ''
she persisted , gently , `` and if I did -- what then ? ''
`` I should hate you , '' he said , passionately .
`` You would be worse than a murderess .
You would kill every good impulse and belief in me .
I would never trust anything or anybody again -- but there , '' he added , his voice once more growing tender , `` you will never fail me , I feel sure of that . ''
`` Thank you , '' said Beatrice , almost in a whisper .
`` Thank you , '' she repeated , after a moment .
She stood up and held out her hand .
`` I think I must go now .
Good-bye , dear laddie .
Write to me from Rome .
I shall always be glad to hear from you wherever you are .
And -- and -- I shall always try to live up to your ideal of me , Stephen . ''
He sprang to his feet and took her hand , lifting it to his lips with boyish reverence .
`` I know that , '' he said , slowly .
`` Good-bye , my sweet lady . ''
When Mrs. Longworth found herself in her room again , she unlocked her desk and took out a letter .
It was addressed to Mr. Maurice Cunningham .
She slowly tore it twice across , laid the fragments on a tray , and touched them with a lighted match .
As they blazed up one line came out in writhing redness across the page : `` I will go away with you as you ask . ''
Then it crumbled into gray ashes .
She drew a long breath and hid her face in her hands .
