In a country which is full of wild beasts of all sorts there once lived a jackal and a hedgehog , and , unlike though they were , the two animals made great friends , and were often seen in each other's company .
One afternoon they were walking along a road together , when the jackal , who was the taller of the two , exclaimed : ` Oh !
there is a barn full of corn ; let us go and eat some . '
` Yes , do let us ! '
answered the hedgehog .
So they went to the barn , and ate till they could eat no more .
Then the jackal put on his shoes , which he had taken off so as to make no noise , and they returned to the high road .
After they had gone some way they met a panther , who stopped , and bowing politely , said : ` Excuse my speaking to you , but I can not help admiring those shoes of yours .
Do you mind telling me who made them ? '
` Yes , I think they are rather nice , ' answered the jackal ; ' I made them myself , though . '
` Could you make me a pair like them ? '
asked the panther eagerly . '
I would do my best , of course , ' replied the jackal ; ` but you must kill me a cow , and when we have eaten the flesh I will take the skin and make your shoes out of it . '
So the panther prowled about until he saw a fine cow grazing apart from the rest of the herd .
He killed it instantly , and then gave a cry to the jackal and hedgehog to come to the place where he was .
They soon skinned the dead beasts , and spread its skin out to dry , after which they had a grand feast before they curled themselves up for the night , and slept soundly .
Next morning the jackal got up early and set to work upon the shoes , while the panther sat by and looked on with delight .
At last they were finished , and the jackal arose and stretched himself .
` Now go and lay them in the sun out there , ' said he ; ` in a couple of hours they will be ready to put on ; but do not attempt to wear them before , or you will feel them most uncomfortable .
But I see the sun is high in the heavens , and we must be continuing our journey . '
The panther , who always believed what everybody told him , did exactly as he was bid , and in two hours ' time began to fasten on the shoes .
They certainly set off his paws wonderfully , and he stretched out his forepaws and looked at them with pride .
But when he tried to walk -- ah !
that was another story !
They were so stiff and hard that he nearly shrieked every step he took , and at last he sank down where he was , and actually began to cry .
After some time some little partridges who were hopping about heard the poor panther's groans , and went up to see what was the matter .
He had never tried to make his dinner off them , and they had always been quite friendly .
` You seem in pain , ' said one of them , fluttering close to him , ` can we help you ? '
` Oh , it is the jackal !
He made me these shoes ; they are so hard and tight that they hurt my feet , and I can not manage to kick them off . '
` Lie still , and we will soften them , ' answered the kind little partridge .
And calling to his brothers , they all flew to the nearest spring , and carried water in their beaks , which they poured over the shoes .
This they did till the hard leather grew soft , and the panther was able to slip his feet out of them .
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' he cried , skipping round with joy . '
I feel a different creature .
Now I will go after the jackal and pay him my debts . '
And he bounded away into the forest .
But the jackal had been very cunning , and had trotted backwards and forwards and in and out , so that it was very difficult to know which track he had really followed .
At length , however , the panther caught sight of his enemy , at the same moment that the jackal had caught sight of him .
The panther gave a loud roar , and sprang forward , but the jackal was too quick for him and plunged into a dense thicket , where the panther could not follow .
Disgusted with his failure , but more angry than ever , the panther lay down for a while to consider what he should do next , and as he was thinking , an old man came by .
` Oh !
father , tell me how I can repay the jackal for the way he has served me ! '
And without more ado he told his story .
` If you take my advice , ' answered the old man , ` you will kill a cow , and invite all the jackals in the forest to the feast .
Watch them carefully while they are eating , and you will see that most of them keep their eyes on their food .
But if one of them glances at you , you will know that is the traitor . '
The panther , whose manners were always good , thanked the old man , and followed his counsel .
The cow was killed , and the partridges flew about with invitations to the jackals , who gathered in large numbers to the feast .
The wicked jackal came amongst them ; but as the panther had only seen him once he could not distinguish him from the rest .
However , they all took their places on wooden seats placed round the dead cow , which was laid across the boughs of a fallen tree , and began their dinner , each jackal fixing his eyes greedily on the piece of meat before him .
Only one of them seemed uneasy , and every now and then glanced in the direction of his host .
This the panther noticed , and suddenly made a bound at the culprit and seized his tail ; but again the jackal was too quick for him , and catching up a knife he cut off his tail and darted into the forest , followed by all the rest of the party .
And before the panther had recovered from his surprise he found himself alone .
` What am I to do now ? '
he asked the old man , who soon came back to see how things had turned out .
` It is very unfortunate , certainly , ' answered he ; ` but I think I know where you can find him .
There is a melon garden about two miles from here , and as jackals are very fond of melons they are nearly sure to have gone there to feed .
If you see a tailless jackal you will know that he is the one you want . '
So the panther thanked him and went his way .
Now the jackal had guessed what advice the old man would give his enemy , and so , while his friends were greedily eating the ripest melons in the sunniest corner of the garden , he stole behind them and tied their tails together .
He had only just finished when his ears caught the sound of breaking branches ; and he cried : ` Quick !
quick !
here comes the master of the garden ! '
And the jackals sprang up and ran away in all directions , leaving their tails behind them .
And how was the panther to know which was his enemy ?
` They none of them had any tails , ' he said sadly to the old man , ` and I am tired of hunting them .
I shall leave them alone and go and catch something for supper . '
Of course the hedgehog had not been able to take part in any of these adventures ; but as soon as all danger was over , the jackal went to look for his friend , whom he was lucky enough to find at home .
` Ah , there you are , ' he said gaily . '
I have lost my tail since I saw you last .
And other people have lost theirs too ; but that is no matter !
I am hungry , so come with me to the shepherd who is sitting over there , and we will ask him to sell us one of his sheep . '
` Yes , that is a good plan , ' answered the hedgehog .
And he walked as fast as his little legs would go to keep up with the jackal .
When they reached the shepherd the jackal pulled out his purse from under his foreleg , and made his bargain .
` Only wait till to-morrow , ' said the shepherd , ` and I will give you the biggest sheep you ever saw .
But he always feeds at some distance from the rest of the flock , and it would take me a long time to catch him . '
` Well , it is very tiresome , but I suppose I must wait , ' replied the jackal .
And he and the hedgehog looked about for a nice dry cave in which to make themselves comfortable for the night .
But , after they had gone , the shepherd killed one of his sheep , and stripped off his skin , which he sewed tightly round a greyhound he had with him , and put a cord round its neck .
Then he lay down and went to sleep .
Very , very early , before the sun was properly up , the jackal and the hedgehog were pulling at the shepherd's cloak .
` Wake up , ' they said , ` and give us that sheep .
We have had nothing to eat all night , and are very hungry . '
The shepherd yawned and rubbed his eyes .
` He is tied up to that tree ; go and take him . '
So they went to the tree and unfastened the cord , and turned to go back to the cave where they had slept , dragging the greyhound after them .
When they reached the cave the jackal said to the hedgehog .
` Before I kill him let me see whether he is fat or thin . '
And he stood a little way back , so that he might the better examine the animal .
After looking at him , with his head on one side , for a minute or two , he nodded gravely .
` He is quite fat enough ; he is a good sheep . '
But the hedgehog , who sometimes showed more cunning than anyone would have guessed , answered : ` My friend , you are talking nonsense .
The wool is indeed a sheep's wool , but the paws of my uncle the greyhound peep out from underneath . '
` He is a sheep , ' repeated the jackal , who did not like to think anyone cleverer than himself .
` Hold the cord while I look at him , ' answered the hedgehog .
Very unwillingly the jackal held the rope , while the hedgehog walked slowly round the greyhound till he reached the jackal again .
He knew quite well by the paws and tail that it was a greyhound and not a sheep , that the shepherd had sold them ; and as he could not tell what turn affairs might take , he resolved to get out of the way .
` Oh !
yes , you are right , ' he said to the jackal ; ` but I never can eat till I have first drunk .
I will just go and quench my thirst from that spring at the edge of the wood , and then I shall be ready for breakfast . '
` Don't be long , then , ' called the jackal , as the hedgehog hurried off at his best pace .
And he lay down under a rock to wait for him .
More than an hour passed by and the hedgehog had had plenty of time to go to the spring and back , and still there was no sign of him .
And this was very natural , as he had hidden himself in some long grass under a tree !
At length the jackal guessed that for some reason his friend had run away , and determined to wait for his breakfast no longer .
So he went up to the place where the greyhound had been tethered and untied the rope .
But just as he was about to spring on his back and give him a deadly bite , the jackal heard a low growl , which never proceeded from the throat of any sheep .
Like a flash of lightning the jackal threw down the cord and was flying across the plain ; but though his legs were long , the greyhound's legs were longer still , and he soon came up with his prey .
The jackal turned to fight , but he was no match for the greyhound , and in a few minutes he was lying dead on the ground , while the greyhound was trotting peacefully back to the shepherd .
Now , though the jackal was dead , he had left two sons behind him , every whit as cunning and tricky as their father .
The elder of the two was a fine handsome creature , who had a pleasant manner and made many friends .
The animal he saw most of was a hyena ; and one day , when they were taking a walk together , they picked up a beautiful green cloak , which had evidently been dropped by some one riding across the plain on a camel .
Of course each wanted to have it , and they almost quarrelled over the matter ; but at length it was settled that the hyena should wear the cloak by day and the jackal by night .
After a little while , however , the jackal became discontented with this arrangement , declaring that none of his friends , who were quite different from those of the hyena , could see the splendour of the mantle , and that it was only fair that he should sometimes be allowed to wear it by day .
To this the hyena would by no means consent , and they were on the eve of a quarrel when the hyena proposed that they should ask the lion to judge between them .
The jackal agreed to this , and the hyena wrapped the cloak about him , and they both trotted off to the lion's den .
The jackal , who was fond of talking , at once told the story ; and when it was finished the lion turned to the hyena and asked if it was true .
` Quite true , your majesty , ' answered the hyena .
` Then lay the cloak on the ground at my feet , ' said the lion , ` and I will give my judgment . '
So the mantle was spread upon the red earth , the hyena and the jackal standing on each side of it .
There was silence for a few moments , and then the lion sat up , looking very great and wise .
` My judgment is that the garment shall belong wholly to whoever first rings the bell of the nearest mosque at dawn to-morrow .
Now go ; for much business awaits me ! '
All that night the hyena sat up , fearing lest the jackal should reach the bell before him , for the mosque was close at hand .
With the first streak of dawn he bounded away to the bell , just as the jackal , who had slept soundly all night , was rising to his feet .
` Good luck to you , ' cried the jackal .
And throwing the cloak over his back he darted away across the plain , and was seen no more by his friend the hyena .
After running several miles the jackal thought he was safe from pursuit , and seeing a lion and another hyena talking together , he strolled up to join them .
` Good morning , ' he said ; ` may I ask what is the matter ?
You seem very serious about something . '
` Pray sit down , ' answered the lion .
` We were wondering in which direction we should go to find the best dinner .
The hyena wishes to go to the forest , and I to the mountains .
What do you say ? '
` Well , as I was sauntering over the plain , just now , I noticed a flock of sheep grazing , and some of them had wandered into a little valley quite out of sight of the shepherd .
If you keep among the rocks you will never be observed .
But perhaps you will allow me to go with you and show you the way ? '
` You are really very kind , ' answered the lion .
And they crept steadily along till at length they reached the mouth of the valley where a ram , a sheep and a lamb were feeding on the rich grass , unconscious of their danger .
` How shall we divide them ? '
asked the lion in a whisper to the hyena .
` Oh , it is easily done , ' replied the hyena .
` The lamb for me , the sheep for the jackal , and the ram for the lion . '
` So I am to have that lean creature , which is nothing but horns , am I ? '
cried the lion in a rage . '
I will teach you to divide things in that manner ! '
And he gave the hyena two great blows , which stretched him dead in a moment .
Then he turned to the jackal and said : ` How would you divide them ? '
` Quite differently from the hyena , ' replied the jackal .
` You will breakfast off the lamb , you will dine off the sheep , and you will sup off the ram . '
` Dear me , how clever you are !
Who taught you such wisdom ? '
exclaimed the lion , looking at him admiringly .
` The fate of the hyena , ' answered the jackal , laughing , and running off at his best speed ; for he saw two men armed with spears coming close behind the lion !
The jackal continued to run till at last he could run no longer .
He flung himself under a tree panting for breath , when he heard a rustle amongst the grass , and his father's old friend the hedgehog appeared before him .
` Oh , is it you ? '
asked the little creature ; ` how strange that we should meet so far from home ! ' '
I have just had a narrow escape of my life , ' gasped the jackal , ` and I need some sleep .
After that we must think of something to do to amuse ourselves . '
And he lay down again and slept soundly for a couple of hours .
` Now I am ready , ' said he ; ` have you anything to propose ? '
` In a valley beyond those trees , ' answered the hedgehog , ` there is a small farmhouse where the best butter in the world is made .
I know their ways , and in an hour's time the farmer's wife will be off to milk the cows , which she keeps at some distance .
We could easily get in at the window of the shed where she keeps the butter , and I will watch , lest some one should come unexpectedly , while you have a good meal .
Then you shall watch , and I will eat . '
` That sounds a good plan , ' replied the jackal ; and they set off together .
But when they reached the farmhouse the jackal said to the hedgehog : ` Go in and fetch the pots of butter and I will hide them in a safe place . '
` Oh no , ' cried the hedgehog , ' I really couldn't .
They would find out directly !
And , besides , it is so different just eating a little now and then . '
` Do as I bid you at once , ' said the jackal , looking at the hedgehog so sternly that the little fellow dared say no more , and soon rolled the jars to the window where the jackal lifted them out one by one .
When they were all in a row before him he gave a sudden start .
` Run for your life , ' he whispered to his companion ; ' I see the woman coming over the hill ! '
And the hedgehog , his heart beating , set off as fast as he could .
The jackal remained where he was , shaking with laughter , for the woman was not in sight at all , and he had only sent the hedgehog away because he did not want him to know where the jars of butter were buried .
But every day he stole out to their hiding-place and had a delicious feast .
At length , one morning , the hedgehog suddenly said : ` You never told me what you did with those jars ? '
` Oh , I hid them safely till the farm people should have forgotten all about them , ' replied the jackal .
` But as they are still searching for them we must wait a little longer , and then I'll bring them home , and we will share them between us . '
So the hedgehog waited and waited ; but every time he asked if there was no chance of getting jars of butter the jackal put him off with some excuse .
After a while the hedgehog became suspicious , and said : ' I should like to know where you have hidden them .
To-night , when it is quite dark , you shall show me the place . ' '
I really can't tell you , ' answered the jackal .
` You talk so much that you would be sure to confide the secret to somebody , and then we should have had our trouble for nothing , besides running the risk of our necks being broken by the farmer .
I can see that he is getting disheartened , and very soon he will give up the search .
Have patience just a little longer . '
The hedgehop said no more , and pretended to be satisfied ; but when some days had gone by he woke the jackal , who was sleeping soundly after a hunt which had lasted several hours . '
I have just had notice , ' remarked the hedgehog , shaking him , ` that my family wish to have a banquet to-morrow , and they have invited you to it .
Will you come ? '
` Certainly , ' answered the jackal , ` with pleasure .
But as I have to go out in the morning you can meet me on the road . '
` That will do very well , ' replied the hedgehog .
And the jackal went to sleep again , for he was obliged to be up early .
Punctual to the moment the hedgehog arrived at the place appointed for their meeting , and as the jackal was not there he sat down and waited for him .
` Ah , there you are ! '
he cried , when the dusky yellow form at last turned the corner . '
I had nearly given you up !
Indeed , I almost wish you had not come , for I hardly know where I shall hide you . '
` Why should you hide me anywhere ? '
asked the jackal .
` What is the matter with you ? '
` Well , so many of the guests have brought their dogs and mules with them , that I fear it may hardly be safe for you to go amongst them .
No ; don't run off that way , ' he added quickly , ` because there is another troop that are coming over the hill .
Lie down here , and I will throw these sacks over you ; and keep still for your life , whatever happens . '
And what did happen was , that when the jackal was lying covered up , under a little hill , the hedgehog set a great stone rolling , which crushed him to death .
Now that the father and elder brother were both dead , all that was left of the jackal family was one son , who was no less cunning than the others had been .
He did not like staying in the same place any better than they , and nobody ever knew in what part of the country he might be found next .
One day , when we was wandering about he beheld a nice fat sheep , which was cropping the grass and seemed quite contented with her lot .
` Good morning , ' said the jackal , ' I am so glad to see you .
I have been looking for you everywhere . '
` For ME ? '
answered the sheep , in an astonished voice ; ` but we have never met before ! '
` No ; but I have heard of you .
Oh !
You don't know what fine things I have heard !
Ah , well , some people have all the luck ! '
` You are very kind , I am sure , ' answered the sheep , not knowing which way to look .
` Is there any way in which I can help you ? '
` There is something that I had set my heart on , though I hardly like to propose it on so short an acquaintance ; but from what people have told me , I thought that you and I might keep house together comfortably , if you would only agree to try .
I have several fields belonging to me , and if they are kept well watered they bear wonderful crops . '
` Perhaps I might come for a short time , ' said the sheep , with a little hesitation ; ` and if we do not get on , we can part company . '
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' cried the jackal ; ` do not let us lose a moment . '
And he held out his paw in such an inviting manner that the sheep got up and trotted beside him till they reached home .
` Now , ' said the jackal , ` you go to the well and fetch the water , and I will pour it into the trenches that run between the patches of corn . '
And as he did so he sang lustily .
The work was very hard , but the sheep did not grumble , and by-and-by was rewarded at seeing the little green heads poking themselves through earth .
After that the hot sun ripened them quickly , and soon harvest time was come .
Then the grain was cut and ground and ready for sale .
When everything was complete , the jackal said to the sheep : ` Now let us divide it , so that we can each do what we like with his share . '
` You do it , ' answered the sheep ; ` here are the scales .
You must weigh it carefully . '
So the jackal began to weigh it , and when he had finished , he counted out loud : ` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven parts for the jackal , and one part for the sheep .
If she likes it she can take it , if not , she can leave it . '
The sheep looked at the two heaps in silence -- one so large , the other so small ; and then she answered : ` Wait for a minute , while I fetch some sacks to carry away my share . '
But it was not sacks that the sheep wanted ; for as soon as the jackal could no longer see her she set forth at her best pace to the home of the greyhound , where she arrived panting with the haste she had made .
` Oh , good uncle , help me , I pray you ! '
she cried , as soon as she could speak .
` Why , what is the matter ? '
asked the greyhound , looking up with astonishment . '
I beg you to return with me , and frighten the jackal into paying me what he owes me , ' answered the sheep .
` For months we have lived together , and I have twice every day drawn the water , while he only poured it into the trenches .
Together we have reaped our harvest ; and now , when the moment to divide our crop has come , he has taken seven parts for himself , and only left one for me . '
She finished , and giving herself a twist , passed her woolly tail across her eyes ; while the greyhound watched her , but held his peace .
Then he said : ` Bring me a sack . '
And the sheep hastened away to fetch one .
Very soon she returned , and laid the sack down before him .
` Open it wide , that I may get in , ' cried he ; and when he was comfortably rolled up inside he bade the sheep take him on her back , and hasten to the place where she had left the jackal .
She found him waiting for her , and pretending to be asleep , though she clearly saw him wink one of his eyes .
However , she took no notice , but throwing the sack roughly on the ground , she exclaimed : ` Now measure ! '
At this the jackal got up , and going to the heap of grain which lay close by , he divided it as before into eight portions -- seven for himself and one for the sheep .
` What are you doing that for ? '
asked she indignantly .
` You know quite well that it was I who drew the water , and you who only poured it into the trenches . '
` You are mistaken , ' answered the jackal .
` It was I who drew the water , and you who poured it into the trenches .
Anybody will tell you that !
If you like , I will ask those people who are digging there ! '
` Very well , ' replied the sheep .
And the jackal called out : ` Ho !
You diggers , tell me : Who was it you heard singing over the work ? '
` Why , it was you , of course , jackal !
You sang so loud that the whole world might have heard you ! '
` And who it is that sings -- he who draws the water , or he who empties it ? '
` Why , certainly he who draws the water ! '
` You hear ? '
said the jackal , turning to the sheep .
` Now come and carry away your own portion , or else I shall take it for myself . '
` You have got the better of me , ' answered the sheep ; ` and I suppose I must confess myself beaten !
But as I bear no malice , go and eat some of the dates that I have brought in that sack . '
And the jackal , who loved dates , ran instantly back , and tore open the mouth of the sack .
But just as he was about to plunge his nose in he saw two brown eyes calmly looking at him .
In an instant he had let fall the flap of the sack and bounded back to where the sheep was standing . '
I was only in fun ; and you have brought my uncle the greyhound .
Take away the sack , we will make the division over again . '
And he began rearranging the heaps .
` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , for my mother the sheep , and one for the jackal , ' counted he ; casting timid glances all the while at the sack .
` Now you can take your share and go , ' said the sheep .
And the jackal did not need twice telling !
Whenever the sheep looked up , she still saw him flying , flying across the plain ; and , for all I know , he may be flying across it still .
