The church at Putney was one that gladdened the hearts of all the ministers in the presbytery whenever they thought about it .
It was such a satisfactory church .
While other churches here and there were continually giving trouble in one way or another , the Putneyites were never guilty of brewing up internal or presbyterial strife .
The Exeter church people were always quarrelling among themselves and carrying their quarrels to the courts of the church .
The very name of Exeter gave the members of presbytery the cold creeps .
But the Putney church people never quarrelled .
Danbridge church was in a chronic state of ministerlessness .
No minister ever stayed in Danbridge longer than he could help .
The people were too critical , and they were also noted heresy hunters .
Good ministers fought shy of Danbridge , and poor ones met with a chill welcome .
The harassed presbytery , worn out with `` supplying , '' were disposed to think that the millennium would come if ever the Danbridgians got a minister whom they liked .
At Putney they had had the same minister for fifteen years and hoped and expected to have him for fifteen more .
They looked with horror-stricken eyes on the Danbridge theological coquetries .
Bloom Valley church was over head and heels in debt and had no visible prospect of ever getting out .
The moderator said under his breath that they did over-much praying and too little hoeing .
He did not believe in faith without works .
Tarrytown Road kept its head above water but never had a cent to spare for missions or the schemes of the church .
In bright and shining contradistinction to these the Putney church had always paid its way and gave liberally to all departments of church work .
If other springs of supply ran dry the Putneyites enthusiastically got up a `` tea '' or a `` social , '' and so raised the money .
Naturally the `` heft '' of this work fell on the women , but they did not mind -- in very truth , they enjoyed it .
The Putney women had the reputation of being `` great church workers , '' and they plumed themselves on it , putting on airs at conventions among the less energetic women of the other churches .
They were especially strong on societies .
There was the Church Aid Society , the Girls ' Flower Band , and the Sewing Circle .
There was a Mission Band and a Helping Hand among the children .
And finally there was the Women 's Foreign Mission Auxiliary , out of which the whole trouble grew which convulsed the church at Putney for a brief time and furnished a standing joke in presbyterial circles for years afterwards .
To this day ministers and elders tell the story of the Putney church strike with sparkling eyes and subdued chuckles .
It never grows old or stale .
But the Putney elders are an exception .
They never laugh at it .
They never refer to it .
It is not in the wicked , unregenerate heart of man to make a jest of his own bitter defeat .
It was in June that the secretary of the Putney W.F.M. Auxiliary wrote to a noted returned missionary who was touring the country , asking her to give an address on mission work before their society .
Mrs. Cotterell wrote back saying that her brief time was so taken up already that she found it hard to make any further engagements , but she could not refuse the Putney people who were so well and favourably known in mission circles for their perennial interest and liberality .
So , although she could not come on the date requested , she would , if acceptable , come the following Sunday .
This suited the Putney Auxiliary very well .
On the Sunday referred to there was to be no evening service in the church owing to Mr. Sinclair 's absence .
They therefore appointed the missionary meeting for that night , and made arrangements to hold it in the church itself , as the classroom was too small for the expected audience .
Then the thunderbolt descended on the W.F.M.A. of Putney from a clear sky .
The elders of the church rose up to a man and declared that no woman should occupy the pulpit of the Putney church .
It was in direct contravention to the teachings of St. Paul .
To make matters worse , Mr. Sinclair declared himself on the elders ' side .
He said that he could not conscientiously give his consent to a woman occupying his pulpit , even when that woman was Mrs. Cotterell and her subject foreign missions .
The members of the Auxiliary were aghast .
They called a meeting extraordinary in the classroom and , discarding all forms and ceremonies in their wrath , talked their indignation out .
Out of doors the world basked in June sunshine and preened itself in blossom .
The birds sang and chirped in the lichened maples that cupped the little church in , and peace was over all the Putney valley .
Inside the classroom disgusted women buzzed like angry bees .
`` What on earth are we to do ? ''
sighed the secretary plaintively .
Mary Kilburn was always plaintive .
She sat on the steps of the platform , being too wrought up in her mind to sit in her chair at the desk , and her thin , faded little face was twisted with anxiety .
`` All the arrangements are made and Mrs. Cotterell is coming on the tenth .
How can we tell her that the men won't let her speak ? ''
`` There was never anything like this in Putney church before , '' groaned Mrs. Elder Knox .
`` It was Andrew McKittrick put them up to it .
I always said that man would make trouble here yet , ever since he moved to Putney from Danbridge .
I've talked and argued with Thomas until I 'm dumb , but he is as set as a rock . ''
`` I don't see what business the men have to interfere with us anyhow , '' said her daughter Lucy , who was sitting on one of the window-sills .
`` We don't meddle with them , I 'm sure .
As if Mrs. Cotterell would contaminate the pulpit ! ''
`` One would think we were still in the dark ages , '' said Frances Spenslow sharply .
Frances was the Putney schoolteacher .
Her father was one of the recalcitrant elders and Frances felt it bitterly -- all the more that she had tried to argue with him and had been sat upon as a `` child who couldn't understand . ''
`` I 'm more surprised at Mr. Sinclair than at the elders , '' said Mrs. Abner Keech , fanning herself vigorously .
`` Elders are subject to queer spells periodically .
They think they assert their authority that way .
But Mr. Sinclair has always seemed so liberal and broad-minded . ''
`` You never can tell what crotchet an old bachelor will take into his head , '' said Alethea Craig bitingly .
The others nodded agreement .
Mr. Sinclair 's inveterate celibacy was a standing grievance with the Putney women .
`` If he had a wife who could be our president this would never have happened , I warrant you , '' said Mrs. King sagely .
`` But what are we going to do , ladies ? ''
said Mrs. Robbins briskly .
Mrs. Robbins was the president .
She was a big , bustling woman with clear blue eyes and crisp , incisive ways .
Hitherto she had held her peace .
`` They must talk themselves out before they can get down to business , '' she had reflected sagely .
But she thought the time had now come to speak .
`` You know , '' she went on , `` we can talk and rage against the men all day if we like .
They are not trying to prevent us .
But that will do no good .
Here 's Mrs. Cotterell invited , and all the neighbouring auxiliaries notified -- and the men won't let us have the church .
The point is , how are we going to get out of the scrape ? ''
A helpless silence descended upon the classroom .
The eyes of every woman present turned to Myra Wilson .
Everyone could talk , but when it came to action they had a fashion of turning to Myra .
She had a reputation for cleverness and originality .
She never talked much .
So far today she had not said a word .
She was sitting on the sill of the window across from Lucy Knox .
She swung her hat on her knee , and loose , moist rings of dark hair curled around her dark , alert face .
There was a sparkle in her grey eyes that boded ill to the men who were peaceably pursuing their avocations , rashly indifferent to what the women might be saying in the maple-shaded classroom .
`` Have you any suggestion to make , Miss Wilson ? ''
said Mrs. Robbins , with a return to her official voice and manner .
Myra put her long , slender index finger to her chin .
`` I think , '' she said decidedly , `` that we must strike . ''
* * * * * When Elder Knox went in to tea that evening he glanced somewhat apprehensively at his wife .
They had had an altercation before she went to the meeting , and he supposed she had talked herself into another rage while there .
But Mrs. Knox was placid and smiling .
She had made his favourite soda biscuits for him and inquired amiably after his progress in hoeing turnips in the southeast meadow .
She made , however , no reference to the Auxiliary meeting , and when the biscuits and the maple syrup and two cups of matchless tea had nerved the elder up , his curiosity got the better of his prudence -- for even elders are human and curiosity knows no gender -- and he asked what they had done at the meeting .
`` We poor men have been shaking in our shoes , '' he said facetiously .
`` Were you ? ''
Mrs. Knox 's voice was calm and faintly amused .
`` Well , you didn't need to .
We talked the matter over very quietly and came to the conclusion that the session knew best and that women hadn't any right to interfere in church business at all . ''
Lucy Knox turned her head away to hide a smile .
The elder beamed .
He was a peace-loving man and disliked `` ructions '' of any sort and domestic ones in particular .
Since the decision of the session Mrs. Knox had made his life a burden to him .
He did not understand her sudden change of base , but he accepted it very thankfully .
`` That 's right -- that 's right , '' he said heartily .
`` I 'm glad to hear you coming out so sensible , Maria .
I was afraid you 'd work yourselves up at that meeting and let Myra Wilson or Alethea Craig put you up to some foolishness or other .
Well , I guess I'll jog down to the Corner this evening and order that barrel of pastry flour you want . ''
`` Oh , you needn't , '' said Mrs. Knox indifferently .
`` We won't be needing it now . ''
`` Not needing it !
But I thought you said you had to have some to bake for the social week after next . ''
`` There isn't going to be any social . ''
`` Not any social ? ''
Elder Knox stared perplexedly at his wife .
A month previously the Putney church had been recarpeted , and they still owed fifty dollars for it .
This , the women declared , they would speedily pay off by a big cake and ice-cream social in the hall .
Mrs. Knox had been one of the foremost promoters of the enterprise .
`` Not any social ? ''
repeated the elder again .
`` Then how is the money for the carpet to be got ?
And why isn't there going to be a social ? ''
`` The men can get the money somehow , I suppose , '' said Mrs. Knox .
`` As for the social , why , of course , if women aren't good enough to speak in church they are not good enough to work for it either .
Lucy , dear , will you pass me the cookies ? ''
`` Lucy dear '' passed the cookies and then rose abruptly and left the table .
Her father 's face was too much for her .
`` What confounded nonsense is this ? ''
demanded the elder explosively .
Mrs. Knox opened her mellow brown eyes widely , as if in amazement at her husband 's tone .
`` I don't understand you , '' she said .
`` Our position is perfectly logical . ''
She had borrowed that phrase from Myra Wilson , and it floored the elder .
He got up , seized his hat , and strode from the room .
That night , at Jacob Wherrison 's store at the Corner , the Putney men talked over the new development .
The social was certainly off -- for a time , anyway .
`` Best let 'em alone , I say , '' said Wherrison .
`` They 're mad at us now and doing this to pay us out .
But they'll cool down later on and we'll have the social all right . ''
`` But if they don't , '' said Andrew McKittrick gloomily , `` who is going to pay for that carpet ? ''
This was an unpleasant question .
The others shirked it .
`` I was always opposed to this action of the session , '' said Alec Craig .
`` It wouldn't have hurt to have let the woman speak .
'T isn't as if it was a regular sermon . ''
`` The session knew best , '' said Andrew sharply .
`` And the minister -- you 're not going to set your opinion up against his , are you , Craig ? ''
`` didn't know they taught such reverence for ministers in Danbridge , '' retorted Craig with a laugh .
`` Best let 'em alone , as Wherrison says , '' said Abner Keech .
`` don't see what else we can do , '' said John Wilson shortly .
* * * * * On Sunday morning the men were conscious of a bare , deserted appearance in the church .
Mr. Sinclair perceived it himself .
After some inward wondering he concluded that it was because there were no flowers anywhere .
The table before the pulpit was bare .
On the organ a vase held a sorry , faded bouquet left over from the previous week .
The floor was ' unswept .
Dust lay thickly on the pulpit Bible , the choir chairs , and the pew backs .
`` This church looks disgraceful , '' said John Robbins in an angry undertone to his daughter Polly , who was president of the Flower Band .
`` What in the name of common sense is the good of your Flower Banders if you can't keep the place looking decent ? ''
`` There is no Flower Band now , Father , '' whispered Polly in turn .
`` we've disbanded .
Women haven't any business to meddle in church matters .
You know the session said so . ''
It was well for Polly that she was too big to have her ears boxed .
Even so , it might not have saved her if they had been anywhere else than in church .
Meanwhile the men who were sitting in the choir -- three basses and two tenors -- were beginning to dimly suspect that there was something amiss here too .
Where were the sopranos and the altos ?
Myra Wilson and Alethea Craig and several other members of the choir were sitting down in their pews with perfectly unconscious faces .
Myra was looking out of the window into the tangled sunlight and shadow of the great maples .
Alethea Craig was reading her Bible .
Presently Frances Spenslow came in .
Frances was organist , but today , instead of walking up to the platform , she slipped demurely into her father 's pew at one side of the pulpit .
Eben Craig , who was the Putney singing master and felt himself responsible for the choir , fidgeted uneasily .
He tried to catch Frances 's eye , but she was absorbed in reading the mission report she had found in the rack , and Eben was finally forced to tiptoe down to the Spenslow pew and whisper , `` Miss Spenslow , the minister is waiting for the doxology .
Aren't you going to take the organ ? ''
Frances looked up calmly .
Her clear , placid voice was audible not only to those in the nearby pews , but to the minister .
`` No , Mr. Craig .
You know if a woman isn't fit to speak in the church she can't be fit to sing in it either . ''
Eben Craig looked exceedingly foolish .
He tiptoed gingerly back to his place .
The minister , with an unusual flush on his thin , ascetic face , rose suddenly and gave out the opening hymn .
Nobody who heard the singing in Putney church that day ever forgot it .
Untrained basses and tenors , unrelieved by a single female voice , are not inspiring .
There were no announcements of society meetings for the forthcoming week .
On the way home from church that day irate husbands and fathers scolded , argued , or pleaded , according to their several dispositions .
One and all met with the same calm statement that if a noble , self-sacrificing woman like Mrs. Cotterell were not good enough to speak in the Putney church , ordinary , everyday women could not be fit to take any part whatever in its work .
Sunday School that afternoon was a harrowing failure .
Out of all the corps of teachers only one was a man , and he alone was at his post .
In the Christian Endeavour meeting on Tuesday night the feminine element sat dumb and unresponsive .
The Putney women never did things by halves .
The men held out for two weeks .
At the end of that time they `` happened '' to meet at the manse and talked the matter over with the harassed minister .
Elder Knox said gloomily , `` It 's this way .
Nothing can move them women .
I know , for I've tried .
My authority has been set at naught in my own household .
And I 'm laughed at if I show my face in any of the other settlements . ''
The Sunday School superintendent said the Sunday School was going to wrack and ruin , also the Christian Endeavour .
The condition of the church for dust was something scandalous , and strangers were making a mockery of the singing .
And the carpet had to be paid for .
He supposed they would have to let the women have their own way .
The next Sunday evening after service Mr. Sinclair arose hesitatingly .
His face was flushed , and Alethea Craig always declared that he looked `` just plain everyday cross . ''
He announced briefly that the session after due deliberation had concluded that Mrs. Cotterell might occupy the pulpit on the evening appointed for her address .
The women all over the church smiled broadly .
Frances Spenslow got up and went to the organ stool .
The singing in the last hymn was good and hearty .
Going down the steps after dismissal Mrs. Elder Knox caught the secretary of the Church Aid by the arm .
`` I guess , '' she whispered anxiously , `` you 'd better call a special meeting of the Aids at my house tomorrow afternoon .
If we 're to get that social over before haying begins we've got to do some smart scurrying . ''
The strike in the Putney church was over .
