A week before Christmas , Aunt Jean wrote to Elizabeth , inviting her and Alberta and me to eat our Christmas dinner at Monkshead .
We accepted with delight .
Aunt Jean and Uncle Norman were delightful people , and we knew we should have a jolly time at their house .
Besides , we wanted to see Monkshead , where Father had lived in his boyhood , and the old Young homestead where he had been born and brought up and where Uncle William still lived .
Father never said much about it , but we knew he loved it very dearly , and we had always greatly desired to get at least a glimpse of what Alberta liked to call `` our ancestral halls . ''
Since Monkshead was only sixty miles away , and Uncle William lived there as aforesaid , it may be pertinently asked what there was to prevent us from visiting it and the homestead as often as we wished .
We answer promptly : the family feud .
Father and Uncle William were on bad terms , or rather on no terms at all , and had been ever since we could remember .
After Grandfather Young's death there had been a wretched quarrel over the property .
Father always said that he had been as much to blame as Uncle William , but Great-aunt Emily told us that Uncle William had been by far the most to blame , and that he had behaved scandalously to Father .
Moreover , she said that Father had gone to him when cooling-down time came , apologized for what he had said , and asked Uncle William to be friends again ; and that William , simply turned his back on Father and walked into the house without saying a word , but , as Great-aunt Emily said , with the Young temper sticking out of every kink and curve of his figure .
Great-aunt Emily is our aunt on Mother's side , and she does not like any of the Youngs except Father and Uncle Norman .
This was why we had never visited Monkshead .
We had never seen Uncle William , and we always thought of him as a sort of ogre when we thought of him at all .
When we were children , our old nurse , Margaret Hannah , used to frighten us into good behaviour by saying ominously , `` If you ` uns aint good your Uncle William'll cotch you . ''
What he would do to us when he `` cotched '' us she never specified , probably reasoning that the unknown was always more terrible than the known .
My private opinion in those days was that he would boil us in oil and pick our bones .
Uncle Norman and Aunt Jean had been living out west for years .
Three months before this Christmas they had come east , bought a house in Monkshead , and settled there .
They had been down to see us , and Father and Mother and the boys had been up to see them , but we three girls had not ; so we were pleasantly excited at the thought of spending Christmas there .
Christmas morning was fine , white as a pearl and clear as a diamond .
We had to go by the seven o'clock train , since there was no other before eleven , and we reached Monkshead at eight-thirty .
When we stepped from the train the stationmaster asked us if we were the three Miss Youngs .
Alberta pleaded guilty , and he said , `` Well , here's a letter for you then . ''
We took the letter and went into the waiting room with sundry misgivings .
What had happened ?
Were Uncle Norman and Aunt Jean quarantined for scarlet fever , or had burglars raided the pantry and carried off the Christmas supplies ?
Elizabeth opened and read the letter aloud .
It was from Aunt Jean to the following effect : DEAR GIRLS : I am so sorry to disappoint you , but I can not help it .
Word has come from Streatham that my sister has met with a serious accident and is in a very critical condition .
Your uncle and I must go to Streatham immediately and are leaving on the eight o'clock express .
I know you have started before this , so there is no use in telegraphing .
We want you to go right to the house and make yourself at home .
You will find the key under the kitchen doorstep , and the dinner in the pantry all ready to cook .
There are two mince pies on the third shelf , and the plum pudding only needs to be warmed up .
You will find a little Christmas remembrance for each of you on the dining-room table .
I hope you will make as merry as you possibly can and we will have you down again as soon as we come back .
Your hurried and affectionate , AUNT JEAN We looked at each other somewhat dolefully .
But , as Alberta pointed out , we might as well make the best of it , since there was no way of getting home before the five o'clock train .
So we trailed out to the stationmaster , and asked him limply if he could direct us to Mr. Norman Young's house .
He was a rather grumpy individual , very busy with pencil and notebook over some freight ; but he favoured us with his attention long enough to point with his pencil and say jerkily , `` Young's ?
See that red house on the hill ?
That's it . ''
The red house was about a quarter of a mile from the station , and we saw it plainly .
Accordingly , to the red house we betook ourselves .
On nearer view it proved to be a trim , handsome place , with nice grounds and very fine old trees .
We found the key under the kitchen doorstep and went in .
The fire was black out , and somehow things wore a more cheerless look than I had expected to find .
I may as well admit that we marched into the dining room first of all , to find our presents .
There were three parcels , two very small and one pretty big , lying on the table , but when we came to look for names there were none .
`` Evidently Aunt Jean , in her hurry and excitement , forgot to label them , '' said Elizabeth .
`` Let us open them .
We may be able to guess from the contents which belongs to whom . ''
I must say we were surprised when we opened those parcels .
`` We had known that Aunt Jean's gifts would be nice , but we had not expected anything like this .
There was a magnificent stone marten collar , a dear little gold watch and pearl chatelaine , and a gold chain bracelet set with turquoises .
`` The collar must be for you , Elizabeth , because Mary and I have one already , and Aunt Jean knows it , '' said Alberta ; `` the watch must be for you , Mary , because I have one ; and by the process of exhaustion the bracelet must be for me .
Well , they are all perfectly sweet . ''
Elizabeth put on her collar and paraded in front of the sideboard mirror .
It was so dusty she had to take her handkerchief and wipe it before she could see herself properly .
Everything in the room was equally dusty .
As for the lace curtains , they looked as if they hadn't been washed for years , and one of them had a long ragged hole in it .
I couldn't help feeling secretly surprised , for Aunt Jean had the reputation of being a perfect housekeeper .
However , I didn't say anything , and neither did the other girls .
Mother had always impressed upon us that it was the height of bad manners to criticize anything we might not like in a house where we were guests .
`` Well , let's see about dinner , '' said Alberta , practically , snapping her bracelet on her wrist and admiring the effect .
We went to the kitchen , where Elizabeth proceeded to light the fire , that being one of her specialties , while Alberta and I explored the pantry .
We found the dinner supplies laid out as Aunt Jean had explained .
There was a nice fat turkey all stuffed , and vegetables galore .
The mince pies were in their place , but they were almost the only things about which that could be truthfully said , for the disorder of that pantry was enough to give a tidy person nightmares for a month .
`` I never in all my life saw -- '' began Alberta , and then stopped short , evidently remembering Mother's teaching .
`` Where is the plum pudding ? ''
said I , to turn the conversation into safer channels .
It was nowhere to be seen , so we concluded it must be in the cellar .
But we found the cellar door padlocked good and fast .
`` Never mind , '' said Elizabeth .
`` You know none of us really likes plum pudding .
We only eat it because it is the proper traditional dessert .
The mince pies will suit us better . ''
We hurried the turkey into the oven , and soon everything was going merrily .
We had lots of fun getting up that dinner , and we made ourselves perfectly at home , as Aunt Jean had commanded .
We kindled a fire in the dining room and dusted everything in sight .
We couldn't find anything remotely resembling a duster , so we used our handkerchiefs .
When we got through , the room looked like something , for the furnishings were really very handsome , but our handkerchiefs -- well !
Then we set the table with all the nice dishes we could find .
There was only one long tablecloth in the sideboard drawer , and there were three holes in it , but we covered them with dishes and put a little potted palm in the middle for a centrepiece .
At one o'clock dinner was ready for us and we for it .
Very nice that table looked , too , as we sat down to it .
Just as Alberta was about to spear the turkey with a fork and begin carving , that being one of her specialties , the kitchen door opened and somebody walked in .
Before we could move , a big , handsome , bewhiskered man in a fur coat appeared in the dining-room doorway .
I wasn't frightened .
He seemed quite respectable , I thought , and I supposed he was some intimate friend of Uncle Norman's .
I rose politely and said , `` Good day . ''
You never saw such an expression of amazement as was on that poor man's face .
He looked from me to Alberta and from Alberta to Elizabeth and from Elizabeth to me again as if he doubted the evidence of his eyes .
`` Mr. and Mrs. Norman Young are not at home , '' I explained , pitying him .
`` They went to Streatham this morning because Mrs. Young's sister is very ill . ''
`` What does all this mean ? ''
said the big man gruffly .
`` This isn't Norman Young's house ... it is mine .
I 'm William Young .
Who are you ?
And what are you doing here ? ''
I fell back into my chair , speechless .
My very first impulse was to put up my hand and cover the gold watch .
Alberta had dropped the carving knife and was trying desperately to get the gold bracelet off under the table .
In a flash we had realized our mistake and its awfulness .
As for me , I felt positively frightened ; Margaret Hannah's warnings of old had left an ineffaceable impression .
Elizabeth rose to the occasion .
Rising to the occasion is another of Elizabeth's specialties .
Besides , she was not hampered by the tingling consciousness that she was wearing a gift that had not been intended for her .
`` We have made a mistake , I fear , '' she said , with a dignity which I appreciated even in my panic , `` and we are very sorry for it .
We were invited to spend Christmas with Mr. and Mrs. Norman Young .
When we got off the train we were given a letter from them stating that they were summoned away but telling us to go to their house and make ourselves at home .
The stationmaster told us that this was the house , so we came here .
We have never been in Monkshead , so we did not know the difference .
Please pardon us . ''
I had got off the watch by this time and laid it on the table , unobserved , as I thought .
Alberta , not having the key of the bracelet , had not been able to get it off , and she sat there crimson with shame .
As for Uncle William , there was positively a twinkle in his eye .
He did not look in the least ogreish .
`` Well , it has been quite a fortunate mistake for me , '' he said .
`` I came home expecting to find a cold house and a raw dinner , and I find this instead .
I 'm very much obliged to you . ''
Alberta rose , went to the mantel piece , took the key of the bracelet therefrom , and unlocked it .
Then she faced Uncle William .
`` Mrs. Young told us in her letter that we would find our Christmas gifts on the table , so we took it for granted that these things belonged to us , '' she said desperately .
`` And now , if you will kindly tell us where Mr. Norman Young does live , we won't intrude on you any longer .
Come , girls . ''
Elizabeth and I rose with a sigh .
There was nothing else to be done , of course , but we were fearfully hungry , and we did not feel enthusiastic over the prospect of going to another empty house and cooking another dinner .
`` Wait a bit , '' said Uncle William .
`` I think since you have gone to all the trouble of cooking the dinner it's only fair you should stay and help to eat it .
Accidents seem to be rather fashionable just now .
My housekeeper's son broke his leg down at Weston , and I had to take her there early this morning .
Come , introduce yourselves .
To whom am I indebted for this pleasant surprise ? ''
`` We are Elizabeth , Alberta , and Mary Young of Green Village , '' I said ; and then I looked to see the ogre creep out if it were ever going to .
But Uncle William merely looked amazed for the first moment , foolish for the second , and the third he was himself again .
`` Robert's daughters ? ''
he said , as if it were the most natural thing in the world that Robert's daughters should be there in his house .
`` So you are my nieces ?
Well , I 'm very glad to make your acquaintance .
Sit down and we'll have dinner as soon as I can get my coat off .
I want to see if you are as good cooks as your mother used to be long ago . ''
We sat down , and so did Uncle William .
Alberta had her chance to show what she could do at carving , for Uncle William said it was something he never did ; he kept a housekeeper just for that .
At first we felt a bit stiff and awkward ; but that soon wore off , for Uncle William was genial , witty , and entertaining .
Soon , to our surprise , we found that we were enjoying ourselves .
Uncle William seemed to be , too .
When we had finished he leaned back and looked at us .
`` I suppose you've been brought up to abhor me and all my works ? ''
he said abruptly .
`` Not by Father and Mother , '' I said frankly .
`` They never said anything against you .
Margaret Hannah did , though .
She brought us up in the way we should go through fear of you . ''
Uncle William laughed .
`` Margaret Hannah was a faithful old enemy of mine , '' he said .
`` Well , I acted like a fool -- and worse .
I've been sorry for it ever since .
I was in the wrong .
I couldn't have said this to your father , but I don't mind saying it to you , and you can tell him if you like . ''
`` He'll be delighted to hear that you are no longer angry with him , '' said Alberta .
`` He has always longed to be friends with you again , Uncle William .
But he thought you were still bitter against him . ''
`` No -- no -- nothing but stubborn pride , '' said Uncle William .
`` Now , girls , since you are my guests I must try to give you a good time .
We'll take the double sleigh and have a jolly drive this afternoon .
And about those trinkets there -- they are yours .
I did get them for some young friends of mine here , but I'll give them something else .
I want you to have these .
That watch looked very nice on your blouse , Mary , and the bracelet became Alberta's pretty wrist very well .
Come and give your cranky old uncle a hug for them . ''
Uncle William got his hugs heartily ; then we washed up the dishes and went for our drive .
We got back just in time to catch the evening train home .
Uncle William saw us off at the station , under promise to come back and stay a week with him when his housekeeper came home .
`` One of you will have to come and stay with me altogether , pretty soon , '' he said .
`` Tell your father he must be prepared to hand over one of his girls to me as a token of his forgiveness .
I'll be down to talk it over with him shortly . ''
When we got home and told our story , Father said , `` Thank God ! ''
very softly .
There were tears in his eyes .
He did not wait for Uncle William to come down , but went to Monkshead himself the next day .
In the spring Alberta is to go and live with Uncle William .
She is making a supply of dusters now .
And next Christmas we are going to have a grand family reunion at the old homestead .
Mistakes are not always bad .
