My trunk was packed and I had arranged with my senior partner -- I was the junior member of a law firm -- for a month's vacation .
Aunt Lucy had written that her husband had gone on a sea trip and she wished me to superintend the business of his farm and mills in his absence , if I could arrange to do so .
She added that `` Gussie '' thought it was a pity to trouble me , and wanted to do the overseeing herself , but that she -- Aunt Lucy -- preferred to have a man at the head of affairs .
I had never seen my step-cousin , Augusta Ashley , but I knew , from Aunt Lucy's remarks concerning her , pretty much what sort of person she was -- just the precise kind I disliked immeasurably .
I had no idea what her age was , but doubtless she was over thirty , tall , determined , aggressive , with a `` faculty '' for managing , a sharp , probing nose , and a y-formation between her eyebrows .
I knew the type , and I was assured that the period of sojourn with my respected aunt would be one of strife between Miss Ashley and myself .
I wrote to Aunt Lucy to expect me , made all necessary arrangements , and went to bid Nellie goodbye .
I had made up my mind to marry Nellie .
I had never openly avowed myself her suitor , but we were cousins , and had grown up together , so that I knew her well enough to be sure of my ground .
I liked her so well that it was easy to persuade myself that I was in love with her .
She more nearly fulfilled the requirements of my ideal wife than anyone I knew .
She was pleasant to look upon , without being distractingly pretty ; small and fair and womanly .
She dressed nicely , sang and played agreeably , danced well , and had a cheerful , affectionate disposition .
She was not alarmingly clever , had no `` hobbies , '' and looked up to me as heir to all the wisdom of the ages -- what man does not like to be thought clever and brilliant ?
I had no formidable rival , and our families were anxious for the match .
I considered myself a lucky fellow .
I felt that I would be very lonely without Nellie when I was away , and she admitted frankly that she would miss me awfully .
She looked so sweet that I was on the point of asking her then and there to marry me .
Well , fate interfered in the guise of a small brother , so I said goodbye and left , mentally comparing her to my idea of Miss Augusta Ashley , much to the latter's disadvantage .
When I stepped from the train at a sleepy country station next day I was promptly waylaid by a black-eyed urchin who informed me that Mrs. Ashley had sent him with an express wagon for my luggage , and that `` Miss Gussie '' was waiting with the carriage at the store , pointing down to a small building before whose door a girl was trying to soothe her frightened horse .
As I went down the slope towards her I noticed she was tall -- quite too tall for my taste .
I dislike women who can look into my eyes on a level -- but I had to admit that her form was remarkably symmetrical and graceful .
She put out her hand -- it was ungloved and large , but white and firm , with a cool , pleasant touch -- and said , with a composure akin to indifference , `` Mr. Carslake , I presume .
Mother could not come to meet you , so she sent me .
Will you be kind enough to hold my horse for a few minutes ?
I want to get something in the store . ''
Whereupon she calmly transferred the reins to me and disappeared .
At the time she certainly did not impress me as pretty , yet neither could I call her plain .
Taken separately , her features were good .
Her nose was large and straight , the mouth also a trifle large but firm and red , the brow wide and white , shadowed by a straying dash of brown curl or two .
She had a certain cool , statuesque paleness , accentuated by straight , fine , black brows , and her eyes were a bluish grey ; but the pupils , as I afterward found out , had a trick of dilating into wells of blackness which , added to a long fringe of very dark lashes , made her eyes quite the most striking feature of her face .
Her expression was open and frank , and her voice clear and musical without being sweet .
She looked about twenty-two .
At the time I did not fancy her appearance and made a mental note to the effect that I would never like Miss Ashley .
I had no use for cool , businesslike women -- women should have no concern with business .
Nellie would never have troubled her dear , curly head over it .
Miss Ashley came out with her arms full of packages , stowed them away in the carriage , got in , told me which road to take , and did not again speak till we were out of the village and driving along a pretty country lane , arched over with crimson maples and golden-brown beeches .
The purplish haze of a sunny autumn day mellowed over the fields , and the bunch of golden rod at my companion's belt was akin to the plumed ranks along the fences .
I hazarded the remark that it was a fine day ; Miss Ashley gravely admitted that it was .
Then a deep smile seemed to rise somewhere in her eyes and creep over her face , discovering a dimple here and there as it proceeded .
`` Don't let's talk about the weather -- the subject is rather stale , '' she said .
`` I suppose you are wondering why on earth Mother had to drag you away out here .
I tried to show her how foolish it was , but I didn't succeed .
Mother thinks there must be a man at the head of affairs or they'll never go right .
I could have taken full charge easily enough ; I haven't been Father's ` boy ' all my life for nothing .
There was no need to take you away from your business . ''
I protested .
I said I was going to take a vacation anyway , and business was not pressing just then .
I also hinted that , while I had no doubt of her capacity , she might have found the duties of superintendent rather arduous .
`` Not at all , '' she said , with a serenity that made me groan inwardly .
`` I like it .
Father always said I was a born business manager .
You'll find Ashley's Mills very quiet , I 'm afraid .
It's a sort of charmed Sleepy Hollow .
See , there's home , '' as we turned a maple-blazoned corner and looked from the crest of one hill across to that of another .
`` Home '' was a big , white , green-shuttered house buried amid a riot of autumn colour , with a big grove of dark green spruces at the back .
Below them was a glimpse of a dark blue mill pond and beyond it long sweeps of golden-brown meadow land , sloping up till they dimmed in horizon mists of pearl and purple .
`` How pretty , '' I exclaimed admiringly .
`` Isn't it ? ''
said Gussie proudly .
`` I love it . ''
Her pupils dilated into dark pools , and I rather unwillingly admitted that Miss Ashley was a fine-looking girl .
As we drove up Aunt Lucy was standing on the steps of the verandah , over whose white roof trailed a luxuriant creeper , its leaves tinged by October frosts into lovely wine reds and tawny yellows .
Gussie sprang out , barely touching my offered hand with her fingertips .
`` There's Mother waiting to pounce on you and hear all the family news , '' she said , `` so go and greet her like a dutiful nephew . ''
`` I must take out your horse for you first , '' I said politely .
`` Not at all , '' said Miss Ashley , taking the reins from my hands in a way not to be disputed .
`` I always unharness Charley myself .
No one understands him half so well .
Besides , I 'm used to it .
Didn't I tell you I 'd always been Father's boy ? ''
`` I well believe it , '' I thought in disgust , as she led the horse over to the well and I went up to Aunt Lucy .
Through the sitting-room windows I kept a watchful eye on Miss Ashley as she watered and deftly unharnessed Charley and led him into his stable with sundry pats on his nose .
Then I saw no more of her till she came in to tell us tea was ready , and led the way out to the dining room .
It was evident Miss Gussie held the reins of household government , and no doubt worthily .
Those firm , capable white hands of hers looked as though they might be equal to a good many emergencies .
She talked little , leaving the conversation to Aunt Lucy and myself , though she occasionally dropped in an apt word .
Toward the end of the meal , however , she caught hold of an unfortunate opinion I had incautiously advanced and tore it into tatters .
The result was a spirited argument , in which Miss Gussie held her own with such ability that I was utterly routed and found another grievance against her .
It was very humiliating to be worsted by a girl -- a country girl at that , who had passed most of her life on a farm !
No doubt she was strong-minded and wanted to vote .
I was quite prepared to believe anything of her .
After tea Miss Ashley proposed a walk around the premises , in order to initiate me into my duties .
Apart from his farm , Mr. Ashley owned large grist-and saw-mills and did a flourishing business , with the details of which Miss Gussie seemed so conversant that I lost all doubt of her ability to run the whole thing as she had claimed .
I felt quite ignorant in the light of her superior knowledge , and our walk was enlivened by some rather too lively discussions between us .
We walked about together , however , till the shadows of the firs by the mills stretched nearly across the pond and the white moon began to put on a silvery burnish .
Then we wound up by a bitter dispute , during which Gussie's eyes were very black and each cheek had a round , red stain on it .
She had a little air of triumph at having defeated me .
`` I have to go now and see about putting away the milk , and I dare say you 're not sorry to be rid of me , '' she said , with a demureness I had not credited her with , `` but if you come to the verandah in half an hour I'll bring you out a glass of new milk and some pound cake I made today by a recipe that's been in the family for one hundred years , and I hope it will choke you for all the snubs you've been giving me . ''
She walked away after this amiable wish , and I stood by the pond till the salmon tints faded from its waters and stars began to mirror themselves brokenly in its ripples .
The mellow air was full of sweet , mingled eventide sounds as I walked back to the house .
Aunt Lucy was knitting on the verandah .
Gussie brought out cake and milk and chatted to us while we ate , in an inconsequent girlish way , or fed bits of cake to a green-eyed goblin in the likeness of a black cat .
She appeared in such an amiable light that I was half inclined to reconsider my opinion of her .
When I went to my room the vase full of crimson leaves on my table suggested Gussie , and I repented of my unfriendliness for a moment -- and only for a moment .
Gussie and her mother passed through the hall below , and Aunt Lucy's soft voice floated up through my half-open door .
`` Well , how do you like your cousin , my dear ? ''
Whereat that decided young lady promptly answered , `` I think he is the most conceited youth I've met for some time . ''
Pleasant , wasn't it ?
I thought of Nellie's meek admiration of all my words and ways , and got her photo out to soothe my vanity .
For the first time it struck me that her features were somewhat insipid .
The thought seemed like disloyalty , so I banished it and went to bed .
I expected to dream of that disagreeable Gussie , but I did not , and I slept so soundly that it was ten o'clock the next morning before I woke .
I sprang out of bed in dismay , dressed hastily , and ran down , not a little provoked at myself .
Through the window I saw Gussie in the garden digging up some geraniums .
She was enveloped in a clay-stained brown apron , a big flapping straw hat half hid her face , and she wore a pair of muddy old kid gloves .
Her whole appearance was disreputable , and the face she turned to me as I said `` Good morning '' had a diagonal streak of clay across it .
I added slovenliness to my already long list of her demerits .
`` Good afternoon , rather .
Don't you know what time it is ?
The men were here three hours ago for their orders .
I thought it a pity to disturb your peaceful dreams , so I gave them myself and sent them off . ''
I was angrier than ever .
A nice beginning I had made .
And was that girl laughing at me ?
`` I expected to be called in time , certainly , '' I said stiffly .
`` I am not accustomed to oversleep myself .
I promise it will not occur again . ''
My dignity was quite lost on Gussie .
She peeled off her gloves cheerfully and said , `` I suppose you 'd like some breakfast .
Just wait till I wash my hands and I'll get you some .
Then if you 're pining to be useful you can help me take up these geraniums . ''
There was no help for it .
After I had breakfasted I went , with many misgivings .
We got on fairly well , however .
Gussie was particularly lively and kept me too busy for argument .
I quite enjoyed the time and we did not quarrel until nearly the last , when we fell out bitterly over some horticultural problem and went in to dinner in sulky silence .
Gussie disappeared after dinner and I saw no more of her .
I was glad of this , but after a time I began to find it a little dull .
Even a dispute would have been livelier .
I visited the mills , looked over the farm , and then carelessly asked Aunt Lucy where Miss Ashley was .
Aunt Lucy replied that she had gone to visit a friend and would not be back till the next day .
This was satisfactory , of course , highly so .
What a relief it was to be rid of that girl with her self-assertiveness and independence .
I said to myself that I hoped her friend would keep her for a week .
I forgot to be disappointed that she had not when , next afternoon , I saw Gussie coming in at the gate with a tolerably large satchel and an armful of golden rod .
I sauntered down to relieve her , and we had a sharp argument under way before we were halfway up the lane .
As usual Gussie refused to give in that she was wrong .
Her walk had brought a faint , clear tint to her cheeks and her rippling dusky hair had half slipped down on her neck .
She said she had to make some cookies for tea and if I had nothing better to do I might go and talk to her while she mixed them .
It was not a gracious invitation but I went , rather than be left to my own company .
By the end of the week I was as much at home at Ashley Mills as if I had lived there all my life .
Gussie and I were thrown together a good deal , for lack of other companions , and I saw no reason to change my opinion of her .
She could be lively and entertaining when she chose , and at times she might be called beautiful .
Still , I did not approve of her -- at least I thought so , most of the time .
Once in a while came a state of feeling which I did not quite understand .
One evening I went to prayer meeting with Aunt Lucy and Gussie .
I had not seen the minister of Ashley Mills before , though Gussie and her mother seemed to know him intimately .
I had an idea that he was old and silvery-haired and benevolent-looking .
So I was rather surprised to find him as young as myself -- a tall , pale , intellectual-looking man , with a high , white brow and dark , earnest eyes -- decidedly attractive .
I was still more surprised when , after the service , he joined Gussie at the door and went down the steps with her .
I felt distinctly ill-treated as I fell back with Aunt Lucy .
There was no reason why I should -- none ; it ought to have been a relief .
Rev. Carroll Martin had every right to see Miss Ashley home if he chose .
Doubtless a girl who knew all there was to be known about business , farming , and milling , to say nothing of housekeeping and gardening , could discuss theology also .
It was none of my business .
I don't know what kept me awake so late that night .
As a consequence I overslept myself .
I had managed to redeem my reputation on this point , but here it was lost again .
I felt cross and foolish and cantankerous when I went out .
There was some unusual commotion at the well .
It was an old-fashioned open one , with a chain and windlass .
Aunt Lucy was peering anxiously down its mouth , from which a ladder was sticking .
Just as I got there Gussie emerged from its depths with a triumphant face .
Her skirt was muddy and draggled , her hair had tumbled down , and she held a dripping black cat .
`` Coco must have fallen into the well last night , '' she explained , as I helped her to the ground .
`` I missed him at milking-time , and when I came to the well this morning I heard the most ear-splitting yowls coming up from it .
I couldn't think where he could possibly be , for the water was quite calm , until I saw he had crept into a little crevice in the stones on the side .
So I got a ladder and went down after him . ''
`` You should have called me , '' I said sourly .
`` You might have killed yourself , going down there . ''
`` And Coco might have tumbled in and drowned while you were getting up , '' retorted Gussie .
`` Besides , what was the need ?
I could go down as well as you . ''
`` No doubt , '' I said , more sharply than I had any business to .
`` I don't dream of disputing your ability to do anything you may take it into your head to do .
Most young ladies are not in the habit of going down wells , however . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' she rejoined , with freezing calmness .
`` But , as you may have discovered , I am not ` most young ladies . '
I am myself , Augusta Ashley , and accountable to nobody but myself if I choose to go down the well every day for pure love of it . ''
She walked off in her wet dress with her muddy cat .
Gussie Ashley was the only girl I ever saw who could be dignified under such circumstances .
I was in a very bad humour with myself as I went off to see about having the well cleaned out .
I had offended Gussie and I knew she would not be easily appeased .
Nor was she .
For a week she kept me politely , studiously , at a distance , in spite of my most humble advances .
Rev. Carroll was a frequent caller , ostensibly to make arrangements about a Sunday school they were organizing in a poor part of the community .
Gussie and he held long conversations on this enthralling subject .
Then Gussie went on another visit to her friend , and when she came back so did Rev. Carroll .
One calm , hazy afternoon I was coming slowly up from the mills .
Happening to glance at the kitchen roof , I gasped .
It was on fire in one place .
Evidently the dry shingles had caught fire from a spark .
There was not a soul about save Gussie , Aunt Lucy , and myself .
I dashed wildly into the kitchen , where Gussie was peeling apples .
`` The house is on fire , '' I exclaimed .
Gussie dropped her knife and turned pale .
`` Don't wake Mother , '' was all she said , as she snatched a bucket of water from the table .
The ladder was still lying by the well .
In a second I had raised it to the roof and , while Gussie went up it like a squirrel and dashed the water on the flames , I had two more buckets ready for her .
Fortunately the fire had made little headway , though a few minutes more would have given it a dangerous start .
The flames hissed and died out as Gussie threw on the water , and in a few seconds only a small black hole in the shingles remained .
Gussie slid down the ladder .
She trembled in every limb , but she put out her wet hand to me with a faint , triumphant smile .
We shook hands across the ladder with a cordiality never before expressed .
For the next week , in spite of Rev. Carroll , I was happy when I thought of Gussie and miserable when I thought of Nellie .
I held myself in some way bound to her and -- was she not my ideal ?
Undoubtedly !
One day I got a letter from my sister .
It was long and newsy , and the eighth page was most interesting .
`` If you don't come home and look after Nellie , '' wrote Kate , `` you'll soon not have her to look after .
You remember that old lover of hers , Rod Allen ?
Well , he's home from the west now , immensely rich , they say , and his attentions to Nellie are the town talk .
I think she likes him too .
If you bury yourself any longer at Ashley Mills I won't be responsible for the consequences . ''
This lifted an immense weight from my mind , but the ninth page hurled it back again .
`` You never say anything of Miss Ashley in your letters .
What is she like -- young or old , ugly or pretty , clever or dull ?
I met a lady recently who knows her and thinks she is charming .
She also said Miss Ashley was to be married soon to Rev. Something-or-Other .
Is it true ? ''
Aye , was it ?
Quite likely .
Kate's letter made a very miserable man of me .
Gussie found me a dull companion that day .
After several vain attempts to rouse me to interest she gave it up .
`` There's no use talking to you , '' she said impatiently .
`` I believe you are homesick .
That letter you got this morning looked suspicious .
Anyhow , I hope you'll get over it before I get back . ''
`` Are you going away again ? ''
I asked .
`` Yes .
I am going to stay a few days with Flossie . ''
Flossie was that inseparable chum of hers .
`` You seem to spend a good deal of your time with her , '' I remarked discontentedly .
Gussie opened her eyes at my tone .
`` Why , of course , '' she said .
`` Flossie and I have always been chums .
And she needs me more than ever just now , for she is awfully busy .
She is to be married next month . ''
`` Oh , I see -- and you -- '' `` I 'm to be bridesmaid , of course , and we've heaps to do .
Flossie wanted to wait until Christmas , but Mr. Martin is in a -- '' `` Mr. Martin , '' I interrupted .
`` Is Mr. Martin going to marry your friend ? ''
`` Why , yes .
Didn't you know ?
They just suit each other .
There he comes now .
He's going to drive me over , and I 'm not ready .
Talk to him , for pity's sake , while I go and dress . ''
I never enjoyed a conversation more .
Rev. Carroll Martin was a remarkably interesting man .
Nellie married Rod Allen at Christmas and I was best man .
Nellie made a charming little bride , and Rod fairly worshipped her .
My own wedding did not come off until spring , as Gussie said she could not get ready before that .
