` Here comes our pretty little girl , ' I said to Kate , as we sat resting on the seat beside the footpath that leads from Dinan on the hill to Lehon in the valley .
Yes , there she was , trotting toward us in her round cap , blue woollen gown , white apron , and wooden shoes .
On her head was a loaf of buckwheat bread as big as a small wheel , in one hand a basket full of green stuff , while the other led an old goat , who seemed in no hurry to get home .
We had often seen this rosy , bright-eyed child , had nodded to her , but never spoken , for she looked rather shy , and always seemed in haste .
Now the sight of the goat reminded us of an excuse for addressing her , and as she was about to pass with the respectful little curtsey of the country , my friend said in French : -- ` Stay please .
I want to speak to you . '
She stopped at once and stood looking at us under her long eyelashes in a timid yet confiding way , very pretty to see .
` We want to drink goat's milk every morning : can you let us have it , little one ? '
` Oh , yes , mademoiselle !
Nannette gives fine milk , and no one has yet engaged her , ' answered the child , her whole face brightening at the prospect .
` What name have you ? '
` Marie Rosier , mademoiselle . '
` And you live at Lehon ? '
` Yes , mademoiselle . '
` Have you parents ? '
` Truly , yes , of the best .
My father has a loom , my mother works in the field and mill with brother Yvon , and I go to school and care for Nannette and nurse little Bebe . '
` What school ? '
` At the convent , mademoiselle .
The good sisters teach us the catechism , also to write and read and sew .
I like it much , ' and Marie glanced at the little prayer in her apron pocket , as if proud to show she could read it .
` What age have you ? '
` Ten years , mademoiselle . '
` You are young to do so much , for we often see you in the market buying and selling , and sometimes digging in your garden there below , and bringing water from the river .
Do you love work as well as school ? '
` Ah , no ; but mademoiselle knows it is necessary to work : every one does , and I 'm glad to do my part .
Yvon works much harder than I , and the father sits all day at his loom , yet he is sick and suffers much .
Yes , I am truly glad to help , ' and little Marie settled the big loaf as if quite ready to bear her share of the burdens .
` Shall we go and see your father about the goat ?
and if he agrees will you bring the milk fresh and warm every morning ? '
I asked , thinking that a sight of that blooming face would brighten our days for us .
` Oh , yes !
I always do it for the ladies , and you will find the milk quite fresh and warm , hey , Nannette ? '
and Marie laughed as she pulled the goat from the hedge where she was nibbling the young leaves .
We followed the child as she went clattering down the stony path , and soon came into the narrow street bounded on one side by the row of low , stone houses , and on the other by the green wet meadow full of willows , and the rapid mill-stream .
All along this side of the road sat women and children , stripping the bark from willow twigs to be used in basket-making .
A busy sight and a cheerful one ; for the women gossiped in their high , clear voices , the children sang and laughed , and the babies crept about as freely as young lambs .
We found Marie's home a very poor one .
Only two rooms in the little hut , the lower one with its earthen floor , beds in the wall , smoky fire , and single window where the loom stood .
At it sat a pale , dark man who stopped work as we entered , and seemed glad to rest while we talked to him , or rather while Kate did , for I could not understand his odd French , and preferred to watch Marie during the making of the bargain .
Yvon , a stout lad of twelve , was cutting up brush with an old sickle , and little Bebe , looking like a Dutch doll in her tiny round cap , tight blue gown , and bits of sabots , clung to Marie as she got the supper .
I wondered what the children at home would have said to such a supper .
A few cabbage leaves made the soup , and this , with the dry black bread and a sip of sour wine , was all they had .
There were no plates or bowls , but little hollow places in the heavy wooden table near the edge , and into these fixed cups Marie ladled the soup , giving each a wooden spoon from a queer rack in the middle ; the kettle stood at one end , the big loaf lay at the other , and all stood round eating out of their little troughs , with Nannette and a rough dog close by to receive any crusts that might be left .
Presently the mother came in , a true Breton woman ; rosy and robust , neat and cheery , though her poor clothes were patched all over , her hands more rough and worn with hard work than any I ever saw , and the fine hair under her picturesque cap gray at thirty with much care .
I saw then where Marie got the brightness that seemed to shine in every feature of her little face , for the mother's coming was like a ray of sunshine in that dark place , and she had a friendly word and look for every one .
Our little arrangement was soon made , and we left them all smiling and nodding as if the few francs we were to pay would be a fortune to them .
Early next morning we were wakened by Françoise , the maid , who came up to announce that the goat's milk had arrived .
Then we heard a queer , quick , tapping sound on the stairs , and to our great amusement , Nannette walked into the room , straight up to my bedside , and stood there looking at me with her mild yellow eyes as if she was quite used to seeing night-caps .
Marie followed with a pretty little bowl in her hand , and said , laughing at our surprise , ` See , dear mademoiselle ; in this way I make sure that the milk is quite fresh and warm ; ' and kneeling down , she milked the bowl full in a twinkling , while Nannette quietly chewed her cud and sniffed at a plate of rolls on the table .
The warm draught was delicious , and we drank each our portion with much merriment .
` It is our custom , ' said Françoise ; who stood by with her arms folded , and looked on in a lofty manner .
` What had you for your own breakfast ? '
I asked , as I caught Marie's eye hungrily fixed on the rolls and some tempting little cakes of chocolate left from our lunch the day before .
` My good bread , as usual , mademoiselle , also sorrel salad and -- and water , ' answered Marie , as if trying to make the most of her scanty meal .
` Will you eat the rolls and put the chocolate in your pocket to nibble at school ?
You must be tired with this long walk so early . '
She hesitated , but could not resist ; and said in a low tone , as she held the bread in her hand without eating it , -- ` Would mademoiselle be angry if I took it to Bebe ?
She has never tasted the beautiful white bread , and it would please her much . '
I emptied the plate into her basket , tucked in the chocolate , and added a gay picture for baby , which unexpected treasures caused Marie to clasp her hands and turn quite red with delight .
After that she came daily , and we had merry times with old Nannette and her little mistress , whom we soon learned to love , so busy , blithe , and grateful was she .
We soon found a new way to employ her , for the boy who drove our donkey did not suit us , and we got the donkey-woman to let us have Marie in the afternoon when her lessons were done .
She liked that , and so did we ; for she seemed to understand the nature of donkeys , and could manage them without so much beating and shouting as the boy thought necessary .
Such pleasant drives as we had , we two big women in the droll wagon , drawn by the little gray donkey that looked as if made of an old trunk , so rusty and rough was he as he went trotting along , his long ears wagging , and his small hoofs clattering over the fine hard road , while Marie sat on the shaft with a long whip , talking and laughing , and giving Andrè a poke now and then , crying ` E! E! houp la ! '
to make him go .
We found her a capital little guide and story-teller , for her grandmother had told her all the tales and legends of the neighbourhood , and it was very pleasant to hear her repeat them in pretty peasant French , as we sat among the ruins , while Kate sketched , I took notes , and Marie held the big parasol over us .
Some of these stones were charming ; at least as she told them , with her little face changing from gay to sad as she gesticulated most dramatically .
The romance of ` Gilles de Bretagne ' was one of her favourites .
How he carried off his child-wife when she was only twelve , how he was imprisoned and poisoned , and at last left to starve in a dungeon , and would stand at his window crying , ` Bread , bread ; for the love of God ! '
yet no one dared to give him any , till a poor peasant woman went in the night and gave him half her black loaf .
Not once , but every night for six months , though she robbed her children to do it .
And when he was dying , it was she who took a priest to him , that he might confess through the bars of his cell .
` So good , ah , so good , this poor woman !
It is beautiful to hear of that , mademoiselle ! '
little Marie would say , with her black eyes full and her lips trembling .
But the story she liked best of all was about the peasant girl and her grandmother .
` See then , dear ladies , it was in this way .
In the time of the great war many poor people were shot because it was feared they would burn the chateaus .
In one of these so sad parties being driven to St. Malo to be shot , was this young girl .
Only fifteen , dear ladies , behold how young is this !
and see the brave thing she did !
With her went the old grandmother whom she loved next the good God .
They went slowly , she was so old , and one of the officers who guarded them had pity on the pretty girl , and said to her as they were a little apart from the rest , `` Come , you are young , and can run .
I will save you ; it is a pity so fine a little girl should be shot . ''
` Then she was glad and thanked him much , saying , `` And the grandmother also ?
You will save her with me ? ''
`` It is impossible , '' says the officer .
`` She is too old to run .
I can save but one , and her life is nearly over ; let her go , and do you fly into the next wood .
I will not betray you , and when we come up with the gang it will be too late to find you . ''
` Then the great temptation of Satan came to this girl .
She had no wish to suffer , but she could not leave the good old grandmere to die alone .
She wept , she prayed , and the saints gave her courage . '
`` No , I will not go , '' she said ; and in the morning at St. Malo she was shot with the old mother in her arms . '
` Could you do that for your grandmere ? '
I once asked , as she stopped for breath , because this tale always excited her .
She crossed herself devoutly , and answered with fire in her eyes , and a resolute gesture of her little brown hands , -- ' I should try , mademoiselle . '
I think she would , and succeed , too , for she was a brave and tender-hearted child , as she soon after proved .
A long drought parched the whole country that summer , and the gardens suffered much , especially the little plats in Lehon , for most of them were on the steep hillside behind the huts ; and unless it rained , water had to be carried up from the stream below .
The cabbages and onions on which these poor people depend , when fresh salads are gone , were dying in the baked earth , and a hard winter was before them if this little store failed .
The priests prayed for rain in the churches , and long processions streamed out of the gates to visit the old stone cross called the ` Croix de Saint Esprit , ' and , kneeling there in crowds , the people implored the blessing of rain to save their harvest .
We felt great pity for them , but liked little Marie's way of praying best .
She did not come one morning , but sent her brother , who only laughed , and said Marie had hurt her foot , when we inquired for her .
Anxious to know if she was really ill , we went to see her in the afternoon , and heard a pretty little story of practical Christianity .
Marie lay asleep on her mother's bed in the wall , and her father , sitting by her , told the tale in a low voice , pausing now and then to look at her , as if his little daughter had done something to be proud of .
It seems that in the village there was an old woman frightfully disfigured by fire , and not quite sane as the people thought .
She was harmless , but never showed herself by day , and only came out at night to work in her garden or take the air .
Many of the ignorant peasants feared her , however ; for the country abounds in fairy legends , and strange tales of ghosts and goblins .
But the more charitable left bread at her door , and took in return the hose she knit or the thread she spun .
During the drought it was observed that her garden , though the steepest and stoniest , was never dry ; her cabbages flourished when her neighbours ' withered , and her onions stood up green and tall as if some special rain-spirit watched over them .
People wondered and shook their heads , but could not explain it , for Mother Lobineau was too infirm to carry much water up the steep path , and who would help her unless some of her own goblin friends did it ?
This idea was suggested by the story of a peasant returning late at night , who had seen something white flitting to and fro in the garden-patch , and when he called to it saw it vanish most mysteriously .
This made quite a stir in the town ; others watched also , saw the white phantom in the starlight , and could not tell where it went when it vanished behind the chestnut trees on the hill , till one man , braver than the rest , hid himself behind these trees and discovered the mystery .
The sprite was Marie , in her little shift , who stepped out of the window of the loft where she slept on to a bough of the tree , and thence to the hill , for the house was built so close against the bank that it was ` but a step from garret to garden , ' as they say in Morlaix .
In trying to escape from this inquisitive neighbour , Marie hurt her foot , but was caught , and confessed that it was she who went at night to water poor Mother Lobineau's cabbages ; because if they failed the old woman might starve , and no one else remembered her destitute and helpless state .
The good-hearted people were much touched by this silent sermon on loving one's neighbour as one's self , and Marie was called the ` little saint , ' and tended carefully by all the good women .
Just as the story ended , she woke up , and at first seemed inclined to hide under the bedclothes .
But we had her out in a minute , and presently she was laughing over her good deed , with a true child's enjoyment of a bit of roguery , saying in her simple way , -- ` Yes ; it was so droll to go running about en chemise , like the girl in the tale of the ` Midsummer Eve , ' where she pulls the Saint Johns-wort flower , and has her wish to hear all the creatures talk .
I liked it much , and Yvon slept so like the dormouse that he never heard me creep in and out .
It was hard to bring much water , but the poor cabbages were so glad , and Mother Lobineau felt that all had not forgotten her .
We took care that little Saint Marie was not forgotten , but quite well , and all ready for her confirmation when the day came .
This is a pretty sight , and for her sake we went to the old church of St. Sauveur to see it .
It was a bright spring day , and the gardens were full of early flowers , the quaint streets gay with proud fathers and mothers in holiday dress , and flocks of strangers pausing to see the long procession of little girls with white caps and veils , gloves and gowns , prayer-books and rosaries , winding through the sunny square into the shadowy church with chanting and candles , garlands and crosses .
The old priest was too ill to perform the service , but the young one who took his place announced , after it was over , that if they would pass the house the good old man would bless them from his balcony .
That was the best of all , and a sweet sight , as the feeble fatherly old priest leaned from his easy-chair to stretch his trembling hands over the little flock so like a bed of snowdrops , while the bright eyes and rosy faces looked reverently up at him , and the fresh voices chanted the responses as the curly heads under the long veils bowed and passed by .
We learned afterwards that our Marie had been called in and praised for her secret charity -- a great honour , because the good priest was much beloved by all his flock , and took a most paternal interest in the little ones .
That was almost the last we saw of our little friend , for we left Dinan soon after , bidding the Lehon family good-bye , and leaving certain warm souvenirs for winter-time .
Marie cried and clung to us at parting , then smiled like an April day , and waved her hand as we went away , never expecting to see her any more .
But the next morning , just as we were stepping on board the steamer to go down the Rance to St. Malo , we saw a little white cap come bobbing through the market-place , down the steep street , and presently Marie appeared with two great bunches of pale yellow primroses and wild blue hyacinths in one hand , while the other held her sabots , that she might run the faster .
Rosy and smiling and breathless with haste she came racing up to us , crying , -- ` Behold my souvenir for the dear ladies .
I do not cry now .
No ; I am glad the day is so fine .
Bon voyage !
bon voyage !
' We thanked and kissed and left her on the shore , bravely trying not to cry , as she waved her wooden shoes and kissed her hand till we were out of sight , and had nothing but the soft colours and sweet breath of our nosegays to remind us of Little Marie of Lehon .
