Dr. Clark shook his head gravely .
`` She is not improving as fast as I should like to see , '' he said .
`` In fact -- er -- she seems to have gone backward the past week .
You must send her to the country , Miss Langley .
The heat here is too trying for her . ''
Dr. Clark might as well have said , `` You must send her to the moon '' -- or so Marcella thought bitterly .
Despair filled her heart as she looked at Patty's white face and transparent hands and listened to the doctor's coolly professional advice .
Patty's illness had already swept away the scant savings of three years .
Marcella had nothing left with which to do anything more for her .
She did not make any answer to the doctor -- she could not .
Besides , what could she say , with Patty's big blue eyes , bigger and bluer than ever in her thin face , looking at her so wistfully ?
She dared not say it was impossible .
But Aunt Emma had no such scruples .
With a great clatter and racket , that lady fell upon the dishes that held Patty's almost untasted dinner and whisked them away while her tongue kept time to her jerky movements .
`` Goodness me , doctor , do you think you 're talking to millionaires ?
Where do you suppose the money is to come from to send Patty to the country ?
I can't afford it , that is certain .
I think I do pretty well to give Marcella and Patty their board free , and I have to work my fingers to the bone to do that .
It's all nonsense about Patty , anyhow .
What she ought to do is to make an effort to get better .
She doesn't -- she just mopes and pines .
She won't eat a thing I cook for her .
How can anyone expect to get better if she doesn't eat ? ''
Aunt Emma glared at the doctor as if she were triumphantly sure that she had propounded an unanswerable question .
A dull red flush rose to Marcella's face .
`` Oh , Aunt Emma , I can't eat ! ''
said Patty wearily .
`` It isn't because I won't -- indeed , I can't . ''
`` Humph !
I suppose my cooking isn't fancy enough for you -- that's the trouble .
Well , I haven't the time to put any frills on it .
I think I do pretty well to wait on you at all with all that work piling up before me .
But some people imagine that they were born to be waited on . ''
Aunt Emma whirled the last dish from the table and left the room , slamming the door behind her .
The doctor shrugged his shoulders .
He had become used to Miss Gibson's tirades during Patty's illness .
But Marcella had never got used to them -- never , in all the three years she had lived with her aunt .
They flicked on the raw as keenly as ever .
This morning it seemed unbearable .
It took every atom of Marcella's self-control to keep her from voicing her resentful thoughts .
It was only for Patty's sake that she was able to restrain herself .
It was only for Patty's sake , too , that she did not , as soon as the doctor had gone , give way to tears .
Instead , she smiled bravely into the little sister's eyes .
`` Let me brush your hair now , dear , and bathe your face . ''
`` Have you time ? ''
said Patty anxiously .
`` Yes , I think so . ''
Patty gave a sigh of content .
`` I 'm so glad !
Aunt Emma always hurts me when she brushes my hair -- she is in such a hurry .
You 're so gentle , Marcella , you don't make my head ache at all .
But oh !
I 'm so tired of being sick .
I wish I could get well faster .
Marcy , do you think I can be sent to the country ? ''
`` I -- I don't know , dear .
I'll see if I can think of any way to manage it , '' said Marcella , striving to speak hopefully .
Patty drew a long breath .
`` Oh , Marcy , it would be lovely to see the green fields again , and the woods and brooks , as we did that summer we spent in the country before Father died .
I wish we could live in the country always .
I 'm sure I would soon get better if I could go -- if it was only for a little while .
It's so hot here -- and the factory makes such a noise -- my head seems to go round and round all the time .
And Aunt Emma scolds so . ''
`` You mustn't mind Aunt Emma , dear , '' said Marcella .
`` You know she doesn't really mean it -- it is just a habit she has got into .
She was really very good to you when you were so sick .
She sat up night after night with you , and made me go to bed .
There now , dearie , you 're fresh and sweet , and I must hurry to the store , or I'll be late .
Try and have a little nap , and I'll bring you home some oranges tonight . ''
Marcella dropped a kiss on Patty's cheek , put on her hat and went out .
As soon as she left the house , she quickened her steps almost to a run .
She feared she would be late , and that meant a ten-cent fine .
Ten cents loomed as large as ten dollars now to Marcella's eyes when every dime meant so much .
But fast as she went , her distracted thoughts went faster .
She could not send Patty to the country .
There was no way , think , plan , worry as she might .
And if she could not !
Marcella remembered Patty's face and the doctor's look , and her heart sank like lead .
Patty was growing weaker every day instead of stronger , and the weather was getting hotter .
Oh , if Patty were to -- to -- but Marcella could not complete the sentence even in thought .
If they were not so desperately poor !
Marcella's bitterness overflowed her soul at the thought .
Everywhere around her were evidences of wealth -- wealth often lavishly and foolishly spent -- and she could not get money enough anywhere to save her sister's life !
She almost felt that she hated all those smiling , well-dressed people who thronged the streets .
By the time she reached the store , poor Marcella's heart was seething with misery and resentment .
Three years before , when Marcella had been sixteen and Patty nine , their parents had died , leaving them absolutely alone in the world except for their father's half-sister , Miss Gibson , who lived in Canning and earned her livelihood washing and mending for the hands employed in the big factory nearby .
She had grudgingly offered the girls a home , which Marcella had accepted because she must .
She obtained a position in one of the Canning stores at three dollars a week , out of which she contrived to dress herself and Patty and send the latter to school .
Her life for three years was one of absolute drudgery , yet until now she had never lost courage , but had struggled bravely on , hoping for better times in the future when she should get promotion and Patty would be old enough to teach school .
But now Marcella's courage and hopefulness had gone out like a spent candle .
She was late at the store , and that meant a fine ; her head ached , and her feet felt like lead as she climbed the stairs to her department -- a hot , dark , stuffy corner behind the shirtwaist counter .
It was warm and close at any time , but today it was stifling , and there was already a crowd of customers , for it was the day of a bargain sale .
The heat and noise and chatter got on Marcella's tortured nerves .
She felt that she wanted to scream , but instead she turned calmly to a waiting customer -- a big , handsome , richly dressed woman .
Marcella noted with an ever-increasing bitterness that the woman wore a lace collar the price of which would have kept Patty in the country for a year .
She was Mrs. Liddell -- Marcella knew her by sight -- and she was in a very bad temper because she had been kept waiting .
For the next half hour she badgered and worried Marcella to the point of distraction .
Nothing suited her .
Pile after pile , box after box , of shirtwaists did Marcella take down for her , only to have them flung aside with sarcastic remarks .
Mrs. Liddell seemed to hold Marcella responsible for the lack of waists that suited her ; her tongue grew sharper and sharper and her comments more trying .
Then she mislaid her purse , and was disagreeable about that until it turned up .
Marcella shut her lips so tightly that they turned white to keep back the impatient retort that rose momentarily to her lips .
The insolence of some customers was always trying to the sensitive , high-spirited girl , but today it seemed unbearable .
Her head throbbed fiercely with the pain of the ever-increasing ache , and -- what was the lady on her right saying to a friend ?
`` Yes , she had typhoid , you know -- a very bad form .
She rallied from it , but she was so exhausted that she couldn't really recover , and the doctor said -- '' `` Really , '' interrupted Mrs. Liddell's sharp voice , `` may I ask you to attend to me , if you please ?
No doubt gossip may be very interesting to you , but I am accustomed to having a clerk pay some small attention to my requirements .
If you can not attend to your business , I shall go to the floor walker and ask him to direct me to somebody who can .
The laziness and disobligingness of the girls in this store is really getting beyond endurance . ''
A passionate answer was on the point of Marcella's tongue .
All her bitterness and suffering and resentment flashed into her face and eyes .
For one moment she was determined to speak out , to repay Mrs. Liddell's insolence in kind .
A retort was ready to her hand .
Everyone knew that Mrs. Liddell , before her marriage to a wealthy man , had been a working girl .
What could be easier than to say contemptuously : `` You should be a judge of a clerk's courtesy and ability , madam .
You were a shop girl yourself once ? ''
But if she said it , what would follow ?
Prompt and instant dismissal .
And Patty ?
The thought of the little sister quelled the storm in Marcella's soul .
For Patty's sake she must control her temper -- and she did .
With an effort that left her white and tremulous she crushed back the hot words and said quietly : `` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Liddell .
I did not mean to be inattentive .
Let me show you some of our new lingerie waists , I think you will like them . ''
But Mrs. Liddell did not like the new lingerie waists which Marcella brought to her in her trembling hands .
For another half hour she examined and found fault and sneered .
Then she swept away with the scornful remark that she didn't see a thing there that was fit to wear , and she would go to Markwell Bros. and see if they had anything worth looking at .
When she had gone , Marcella leaned against the counter , pale and exhausted .
She must have a breathing spell .
Oh , how her head ached !
How hot and stifling and horrible everything was !
She longed for the country herself .
Oh , if she and Patty could only go away to some place where there were green clover meadows and cool breezes and great hills where the air was sweet and pure !
During all this time a middle-aged woman had been sitting on a stool beside the bargain counter .
When a clerk asked her if she wished to be waited on , she said , `` No , I 'm just waiting here for a friend who promised to meet me . ''
She was tall and gaunt and grey haired .
She had square jaws and cold grey eyes and an aggressive nose , but there was something attractive in her plain face , a mingling of common sense and kindliness .
She watched Marcella and Mrs. Liddell closely and lost nothing of all that was said and done on both sides .
Now and then she smiled grimly and nodded .
When Mrs. Liddell had gone , she rose and leaned over the counter .
Marcella opened her burning eyes and pulled herself wearily together .
`` What can I do for you ? ''
she said .
`` Nothing .
I ain't looking for to have anything done for me .
You need to have something done for you , I guess , by the looks of you .
You seem dead beat out .
Aren't you awful tired ?
I've been listening to that woman jawing you till I felt like rising up and giving her a large and wholesome piece of my mind .
I don't know how you kept your patience with her , but I can tell you I admired you for it , and I made up my mind I 'd tell you so . ''
The kindness and sympathy in her tone broke Marcella down .
Tears rushed to her eyes .
She bowed her head on her hands and said sobbingly , `` Oh , I am tired !
But it's not that .
I 'm -- I 'm in such trouble . ''
`` I knew you were , '' said the other , with a nod of her head .
`` I could tell that right off by your face .
Do you know what I said to myself ?
I said , ` That girl has got somebody at home awful sick . '
That's what I said .
Was I right ? ''
`` Yes , indeed you were , '' said Marcella .
`` I knew it '' -- another triumphant nod .
`` Now , you just tell me all about it .
It'll do you good to talk it over with somebody .
Here , I'll pretend I 'm looking at shirtwaists , so that floor walker won't be coming down on you , and I'll be as hard to please as that other woman was , so's you can take your time .
Who's sick -- and what's the matter ? ''
Marcella told the whole story , choking back her sobs and forcing herself to speak calmly , having the fear of the floor walker before her eyes .
`` And I can't afford to send Patty to the country -- I can't -- and I know she won't get better if she doesn't go , '' she concluded .
`` Dear , dear , but that's too bad !
Something must be done .
Let me see -- let me put on my thinking cap .
What is your name ? ''
`` Marcella Langley . ''
The older woman dropped the lingerie waist she was pretending to examine and stared at Marcella .
`` You don't say !
Look here , what was your mother's name before she was married ? ''
`` Mary Carvell . ''
`` Well , I have heard of coincidences , but this beats all !
Mary Carvell !
Well , did you ever hear your mother speak of a girl friend of hers called Josephine Draper ? ''
`` I should think I did !
You don't mean -- '' `` I do mean it .
I 'm Josephine Draper .
Your mother and I went to school together , and we were as much as sisters to each other until she got married .
Then she went away , and after a few years I lost trace of her .
I didn't even know she was dead .
Poor Mary !
Well , my duty is plain -- that's one comfort -- my duty and my pleasure , too .
Your sister is coming out to Dalesboro to stay with me .
Yes , and you are too , for the whole summer .
You needn't say you 're not , because you are .
I've said so .
There's room at Fir Cottage for you both .
Yes , Fir Cottage -- I guess you've heard your mother speak of that .
There's her old room out there that we always slept in when she came to stay all night with me .
It's all ready for you .
What's that ?
You can't afford to lose your place here ?
Bless your heart , child , you won't lose it !
The owner of this store is my nephew , and he'll do considerable to oblige me , as well he might , seeing as I brought him up .
To think that Mary Carvell's daughter has been in his store for three years , and me never suspecting it !
And I might never have found you out at all if you hadn't been so patient with that woman .
If you 'd sassed her back , I 'd have thought she deserved it and wouldn't have blamed you a mite , but I wouldn't have bothered coming to talk to you either .
Well , well well !
Poor child , don't cry .
You just pick up and go home .
I'll make it all right with Tom .
You 're pretty near played out yourself , I can see that .
But a summer in Fir Cottage , with plenty of cream and eggs and my cookery , will soon make another girl of you .
Don't you dare to thank me .
It's a privilege to be able to do something for Mary Carvell's girls .
I just loved Mary . ''
The upshot of the whole matter was that Marcella and Patty went , two days later , to Dalesboro , where Miss Draper gave them a hearty welcome to Fir Cottage -- a quaint , delightful little house circled by big Scotch firs and overgrown with vines .
Never were such delightful weeks as those that followed .
Patty came rapidly back to health and strength .
As for Marcella , Miss Draper's prophecy was also fulfilled ; she soon looked and felt like another girl .
The dismal years of drudgery behind her were forgotten like a dream , and she lived wholly in the beautiful present , in the walks and drives , the flowers and grass slopes , and in the pleasant household duties which she shared with Miss Draper .
`` I love housework , '' she exclaimed one September day .
`` I don't like the thought of going back to the store a bit . ''
`` Well , you 're not going back , '' calmly said Miss Draper , who had a habit of arranging other people's business for them that might have been disconcerting had it not been for her keen insight and hearty good sense .
`` You 're going to stay here with me -- you and Patty .
I don't propose to die of lonesomeness losing you , and I need somebody to help me about the house .
I've thought it all out .
You are to call me Aunt Josephine , and Patty is to go to school .
I had this scheme in mind from the first , but I thought I 'd wait to see how we got along living in the same house , and how you liked it here , before I spoke out .
No , you needn't thank me this time either .
I 'm doing this every bit as much for my sake as yours .
Well , that's all settled .
Patty won't object , bless her rosy cheeks ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
said Marcella , with eyes shining through her tears .
`` I 'm so happy , dear Miss Draper -- I mean Aunt Josephine .
I'll love to stay here -- and I will thank you . ''
`` Fudge ! ''
remarked Miss Draper , who felt uncomfortably near crying herself .
`` You might go out and pick a basket of Golden Gems .
I want to make some jelly for Patty . ''
