Cousin Myra had come to spend Christmas at `` The Firs , '' and all the junior Osbornes were ready to stand on their heads with delight .
Darby -- whose real name was Charles -- did it , because he was only eight , and at eight you have no dignity to keep up .
The others , being older , couldn't .
But the fact of Christmas itself awoke no great enthusiasm in the hearts of the junior Osbornes .
Frank voiced their opinion of it the day after Cousin Myra had arrived .
He was sitting on the table with his hands in his pockets and a cynical sneer on his face .
At least , Frank flattered himself that it was cynical .
He knew that Uncle Edgar was said to wear a cynical sneer , and Frank admired Uncle Edgar very much and imitated him in every possible way .
But to you and me it would have looked just as it did to Cousin Myra -- a very discontented and unbecoming scowl .
`` I 'm awfully glad to see you , Cousin Myra , '' explained Frank carefully , `` and your being here may make some things worth while .
But Christmas is just a bore -- a regular bore . ''
That was what Uncle Edgar called things that didn't interest him , so that Frank felt pretty sure of his word .
Nevertheless , he wondered uncomfortably what made Cousin Myra smile so queerly .
`` Why , how dreadful ! ''
she said brightly .
`` I thought all boys and girls looked upon Christmas as the very best time in the year . ''
`` We don't , '' said Frank gloomily .
`` It 's just the same old thing year in and year out .
We know just exactly what is going to happen .
We even know pretty well what presents we are going to get .
And Christmas Day itself is always the same .
we'll get up in the morning , and our stockings will be full of things , and half of them we don't want .
Then there 's dinner .
It 's always so poky .
And all the uncles and aunts come to dinner -- just the same old crowd , every year , and they say just the same things .
Aunt Desda always says , ` Why , Frankie , how you have grown ! '
She knows I hate to be called Frankie .
And after dinner they'll sit round and talk the rest of the day , and that 's all .
Yes , I call Christmas a nuisance . ''
`` There isn't a single bit of fun in it , '' said Ida discontentedly .
`` Not a bit ! ''
said the twins , both together , as they always said things .
`` There 's lots of candy , '' said Darby stoutly .
He rather liked Christmas , although he was ashamed to say so before Frank .
Cousin Myra smothered another of those queer smiles .
`` you've had too much Christmas , you Osbornes , '' she said seriously .
`` It has palled on your taste , as all good things will if you overdo them .
Did you ever try giving Christmas to somebody else ? ''
The Osbornes looked at Cousin Myra doubtfully .
They didn't understand .
`` We always send presents to all our cousins , '' said Frank hesitatingly .
`` That 's a bore , too .
They've all got so many things already it 's no end of bother to think of something new . ''
`` That isn't what I mean , '' said Cousin Myra .
`` How much Christmas do you suppose those little Rolands down there in the hollow have ?
Or Sammy Abbott with his lame back ?
Or French Joe 's family over the hill ?
If you have too much Christmas , why don't you give some to them ? ''
The Osbornes looked at each other .
This was a new idea .
`` How could we do it ? ''
asked Ida .
Whereupon they had a consultation .
Cousin Myra explained her plan , and the Osbornes grew enthusiastic over it .
Even Frank forgot that he was supposed to be wearing a cynical sneer .
`` I move we do it , Osbornes , '' said he .
`` If Father and Mother are willing , '' said Ida .
`` won't it be jolly ! ''
exclaimed the twins .
`` Well , rather , '' said Darby scornfully .
He did not mean to be scornful .
He had heard Frank saying the same words in the same tone , and thought it signified approval .
Cousin Myra had a talk with Father and Mother Osborne that night , and found them heartily in sympathy with her plans .
For the next week the Osbornes were agog with excitement and interest .
At first Cousin Myra made the suggestions , but their enthusiasm soon outstripped her , and they thought out things for themselves .
Never did a week pass so quickly .
And the Osbornes had never had such fun , either .
Christmas morning there was not a single present given or received at `` The Firs '' except those which Cousin Myra and Mr. and Mrs. Osborne gave to each other .
The junior Osbornes had asked that the money which their parents had planned to spend in presents for them be given to them the previous week ; and given it was , without a word .
The uncles and aunts arrived in due time , but not with them was the junior Osbornes ' concern .
They were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Osborne .
The junior Osbornes were having a Christmas dinner party of their own .
In the small dining room a table was spread and loaded with good things .
Ida and the twins cooked that dinner all by themselves .
To be sure , Cousin Myra had helped some , and Frank and Darby had stoned all the raisins and helped pull the home-made candy ; and all together they had decorated the small dining room royally with Christmas greens .
Then their guests came .
First , all the little Rolands from the Hollow arrived -- seven in all , with very red , shining faces and not a word to say for themselves , so shy were they .
Then came a troop from French Joe 's -- four black-eyed lads , who never knew what shyness meant .
Frank drove down to the village in the cutter and brought lame Sammy back with him , and soon after the last guest arrived -- little Tillie Mather , who was Miss Rankin 's `` orphan ` sylum girl '' from over the road .
Everybody knew that Miss Rankin never kept Christmas .
She did not believe in it , she said , but she did not prevent Tillie from going to the Osbornes ' dinner party .
Just at first the guests were a little stiff and unsocial ; but they soon got acquainted , and so jolly was Cousin Myra -- who had her dinner with the children in preference to the grown-ups -- and so friendly the junior Osbornes , that all stiffness vanished .
What a merry dinner it was !
What peals of laughter went up , reaching to the big dining room across the hall , where the grown-ups sat in rather solemn state .
And how those guests did eat and frankly enjoy the good things before them !
How nicely they all behaved , even to the French Joes !
Myra had secretly been a little dubious about those four mischievous-looking lads , but their manners were quite flawless .
Mrs. French Joe had been drilling them for three days -- ever since they had been invited to `` de Chrismus dinner at de beeg house . ''
After the merry dinner was over , the junior Osbornes brought in a Christmas tree , loaded with presents .
They had bought them with the money that Mr. and Mrs. Osborne had meant for their own presents , and a splendid assortment they were .
All the French-Joe boys got a pair of skates apiece , and Sammy a set of beautiful books , and Tillie was made supremely happy with a big wax doll .
Every little Roland got just what his or her small heart had been longing for .
Besides , there were nuts and candies galore .
Then Frank hitched up his pony again , but this time into a great pung sleigh , and the junior Osbornes took their guests for a sleigh-drive , chaperoned by Cousin Myra .
It was just dusk when they got back , having driven the Rolands and the French Joes and Sammy and Tillie to their respective homes .
`` This has been the jolliest Christmas I ever spent , '' said Frank , emphatically .
`` I thought we were just going to give the others a good time , but it was they who gave it to us , '' said Ida .
`` Weren't the French Joes jolly ? ''
giggled the twins .
`` Such cute speeches as they would make ! ''
`` Me and Teddy Roland are going to be chums after this , '' announced Darby .
`` He 's an inch taller than me , but I 'm wider . ''
That night Frank and Ida and Cousin Myra had a little talk after the smaller Osbornes had been haled off to bed .
`` We 're not going to stop with Christmas , Cousin Myra , '' said Frank , at the end of it .
`` We 're just going to keep on through the year .
we've never had such a delightful old Christmas before . ''
`` you've learned the secret of happiness , '' said Cousin Myra gently .
And the Osbornes understood what she meant .
