January First .
Aunt Jemima gave me this diary for a Christmas present .
It's just the sort of gift a person named Jemima would be likely to make .
I can't imagine why Aunt Jemima thought I should like a diary .
Probably she didn't think about it at all .
I suppose it happened to be the first thing she saw when she started out to do her Christmas duty by me , and so she bought it .
I 'm sure I 'm the last girl in the world to keep a diary .
I 'm not a bit sentimental and I never have time for soul outpourings .
It's jollier to be out skating or snowshoeing or just tramping around .
And besides , nothing ever happens to me worth writing in a diary .
Still , since Aunt Jemima gave it to me , I 'm going to get the good out of it .
I don't believe in wasting even a diary .
Father ... it would be easier to write `` Dad , '' but Dad sounds disrespectful in a diary ... says I have a streak of old Grandmother Marshall's economical nature in me .
So I 'm going to write in this book whenever I have anything that might , by any stretch of imagination , be supposed worth while .
Jen and Alice and Sue would have plenty to write about , I dare say .
They certainly seem to have jolly times ... and as for the men ... but there !
People say men are interesting .
They may be .
But I shall never get well enough acquainted with any of them to find out .
Mother says it is high time I gave up my tomboy ways and came `` out '' too , because I am eighteen .
I coaxed off this winter .
It wasn't very hard , because no mother with three older unmarried girls on her hands would be very anxious to bring out a fourth .
The girls took my part and advised Mother to let me be a child as long as possible .
Mother yielded for this time , but said I must be brought out next winter or people would talk .
Oh , I hate the thought of it !
People might talk about my not being brought out , but they will talk far more about the blunders I shall make .
The doleful fact is , I 'm too wretchedly shy and awkward to live .
It fills my soul with terror to think of donning long dresses and putting my hair up and going into society .
I can't talk and men frighten me to death .
I fall over things as it is , and what will it be with long dresses ?
As far back as I can remember it has been my one aim and object in life to escape company .
Oh , if only one need never grow up !
If I could only go back four years and stay there !
Mother laments over it muchly .
She says she doesn't know what she has done to have such a shy , unpresentable daughter .
I know .
She married Grandmother Marshall's son , and Grandmother Marshall was as shy as she was economical .
Mother triumphed over heredity with Jen and Sue and Alice , but it came off best with me .
The other girls are noted for their grace and tact .
But I 'm the black sheep and always will be .
It wouldn't worry me so much if they 'd leave me alone and stop nagging me .
`` Oh , for a lodge in some vast wilderness , '' where there were no men , no parties , no dinners ... just quantities of dogs and horses and skating ponds and woods !
I need never put on long dresses then , but just be a jolly little girl forever .
However , I've got one beautiful year before me yet , and I mean to make the most of it .
* * * * * January Tenth .
It is rather good to have a diary to pour out your woes in when you feel awfully bad and have no one to sympathize with you .
I've been used to shutting them all up in my soul and then they sometimes fermented and made trouble .
We had a lot of people here to dinner tonight , and that made me miserable to begin with .
I had to dress up in a stiff white dress with a sash , and Jen tied two big white fly-away bows on my hair that kept rasping my neck and tickling my ears in a most exasperating way .
Then an old lady whom I detest tried to make me talk before everybody , and all I could do was to turn as red as a beet and stammer : `` Yes , ma'am , '' `` no , ma'am . ''
It made Mother furious , because it is so old-fashioned to say `` ma'am . ''
Our old nurse taught me to say it when I was small , and though it has been pretty well governessed out of me since then , it's sure to pop up when I get confused and nervous .
Sue ... may it be accounted unto her for righteousness ... contrived that I should go out to dinner with old Mr. Grant , because she knew he goes to dinners for the sake of eating and never talks or wants anybody else to .
But when we were crossing the hall I stepped on Mrs. Burnett's train and something tore .
Mrs. Burnett gave me a furious look and glowered all through dinner .
The meal was completely spoiled for me and I could find no comfort , even in the Nesselrode pudding , which is my favourite dessert .
It was just when the pudding came on that I got the most unkindest cut of all .
Mrs. Allardyce remarked that Sidney Elliot was coming home to Stillwater .
Everybody exclaimed and questioned and seemed delighted .
I saw Mother give one quick , involuntary look at Jen , and then gaze steadfastly at Mr. Grant to atone for it .
Jen is twenty-six , and Stillwater is next door to our place !
As for me , I was so vexed that I might as well have been eating chips for all the good that Nesselrode pudding was to me .
If Sidney Elliot were coming home everything would be spoiled .
There would be no more ramblings in the Stillwater woods , no more delightful skating on the Stillwater lake .
Stillwater has been the only place in the world where I could find the full joy of solitude , and now this , too , was to be taken from me .
We had no woods , no lake .
I hated Sidney Elliot .
It is ten years since Sidney Elliot closed Stillwater and went abroad .
He has stayed abroad ever since and nobody has missed him , I 'm sure .
I remember him dimly as a tall dark man who used to lounge about alone in his garden and was always reading books .
Sometimes he came into our garden and teased us children .
He is said to be a cynic and to detest society .
If this latter item be a fact I almost feel a grim pity for him .
He may detest it , but he will be dragged into it .
Rich bachelors are few and far between in Riverton , and the mammas will hunt him down .
I feel like crying .
If Sidney Elliot comes home I shall be debarred from Stillwater .
I have roamed its demesnes for ten beautiful years , and I 'm sure I love them a hundredfold better than he does , or can .
It is flagrantly unfair .
Oh , I hate him !
* * * * * January Twentieth .
No , I don't .
I believe I like him .
Yet it's almost unbelievable .
I've always thought men so detestable .
I 'm tingling all over with the surprise and pleasure of a little unexpected adventure .
For the first time I have something really worth writing in a diary ... and I 'm glad I have a diary to write it in .
Blessings on Aunt Jemima !
May her shadow never grow less .
This evening I started out for a last long lingering ramble in my beloved Stillwater woods .
The last , I thought , because I knew Sidney Elliot was expected home next week , and after that I 'd have to be cooped up on our lawn .
I dressed myself comfortably for climbing fences and skimming over snowy wastes .
That is , I put on the shortest old tweed skirt I have and a red jacket with sleeves three years behind the fashion , but jolly pockets to put your hands in , and a still redder tam .
Thus accoutred , I sallied forth .
It was such a lovely evening that I couldn't help enjoying myself in spite of my sorrows .
The sun was low and creamy , and the snow was so white and the shadows so slender and blue .
All through the lovely Stillwater woods was a fine frosty stillness .
It was splendid to skim down those long wonderful avenues of crusted snow , with the mossy grey boles on either hand , and overhead the lacing , leafless boughs , I just drank in the air and the beauty until my very soul was thrilling , and I went on and on and on until I was most delightfully lost .
That is , I didn't know just where I was , but the woods weren't so big but that I 'd be sure to come out safely somewhere ; and , oh , it was so glorious to be there all alone and never a creature to worry me .
At last I turned into a long aisle that seemed to lead right out into the very heart of a deep-red overflowing winter sunset .
At its end I found a fence , and I climbed up on that fence and sat there , so comfortably , with my back against a big beech and my feet dangling .
Then I saw him !
I knew it was Sidney Elliot in a moment .
He was just as tall and just as black-eyed ; he was still given to lounging evidently , for he was leaning against the fence a panel away from me and looking at me with an amused smile .
After my first mad impulse to rush away and bury myself in the wilderness that smile put me at ease .
If he had looked grave or polite I would have been as miserably shy as I've always been in a man's presence .
But it was the smile of a grandfather for a child , and I just grinned cheerfully back at him .
He ploughed along through the thick drift that was soft and spongy by the fence and came close up to me .
`` You must be little Cornelia , '' he said with another aged smile .
`` Or rather , you were little Cornelia .
I suppose you are big Cornelia now and want to be treated like a young lady ? ''
`` Indeed , I don't , '' I protested .
`` I 'm not grown up and I don't want to be .
You are Mr. Elliot , I suppose .
Nobody expected you till next week .
What made you come so soon ? ''
`` A whim of mine , '' he said .
`` I 'm full of whims and crotchets .
Old bachelors always are .
But why did you ask that question in a tone which seemed to imply that you resented my coming so soon , Miss Cornelia ? ''
`` Oh , don't tack the Miss on , '' I implored .
`` Call me Cornelia ... or better still , Nic , as Dad does .
I do resent your coming so soon .
I resent your coming at all .
And , oh , it is such a satisfaction to tell you so . ''
He smiled with his eyes ... a deep , black , velvety smile .
But he shook his head sorrowfully .
`` I must be getting very old , '' he said .
`` It's a sign of age when a person finds himself unwelcome and superfluous . ''
`` Your age has nothing to do with it , '' I retorted .
`` It is because Stillwater is the only place I have to run wild in ... and running wild is all I 'm fit for .
It's so lovely and roomy I can lose myself in it .
I shall die or go mad if I 'm cooped up on our little pocket handkerchief of a lawn . ''
`` But why should you be ? ''
he inquired gravely .
I reflected ... and was surprised .
`` After all , I don't know ... now ... why I should be , '' I admitted .
`` I thought you wouldn't want me prowling about your domains .
Besides , I was afraid I 'd meet you ... and I don't like meeting men .
I hate to have them around ... I 'm so shy and awkward . ''
`` Do you find me very dreadful ? ''
he asked .
I reflected again ... and was again surprised .
`` No , I don't .
I don't mind you a bit ... any more than if you were Dad . ''
`` Then you mustn't consider yourself an exile from Stillwater .
The woods are yours to roam in at will , and if you want to roam them alone you may , and if you 'd like a companion once in a while command me .
Let's be good friends , little lass .
Shake hands on it . ''
I slipped down from the fence and shook hands with him .
I did like him very much ... he was so nice and unaffected and brotherly ... just as if I 'd known him all my life .
We walked down the long white avenue , where everything was growing dusky , and I had told him all my troubles before we got to the end of it .
He was so sympathetic and agreed with me that it was a pity people had to grow up .
He promised to come over tomorrow and look at Don's leg .
Don is one of my dogs , and he has got a bad leg .
I've been doctoring it myself , but it doesn't get any better .
Sidney thinks he can cure it .
He says I must call him Sidney if I want him to call me Nic .
When we got to the lake , there it lay all gleaming and smooth as glass ... the most tempting thing .
`` What a glorious possible slide , '' he said .
`` Let us have it , little lass . ''
He took my hand and we ran down the slope and went skimming over the ice .
It was glorious .
The house came in sight as we reached the other side .
It was big and dark and silent .
`` So the old place is still standing , '' said Sidney , looking up at it .
In the dusk I thought his face had a tender , reverent look instead of the rather mocking expression it had worn all along .
`` Haven't you been there yet ? ''
I asked quickly .
`` No .
I 'm stopping at the hotel over in Croyden .
The house will need some fixing up before it's fit to live in .
I just came down tonight to look at it and took a short cut through the woods .
I 'm glad I did .
It was worth while to see you come tramping down that long white avenue when you thought yourself alone with the silence .
I thought I had never seen a child so full of the pure joy of existence .
Hold fast to that , little lass , as long as you can .
You'll never find anything to take its place after it goes .
You jolly little child ! ''
`` I 'm eighteen , '' I said suddenly .
I don't know what made me say it .
He laughed and pulled his coat collar up around his ears .
`` Never , '' he mocked .
`` You 're about twelve ... stay twelve , and always wear red caps and jackets , you vivid thing : Good night . ''
He was off across the lake , and I came home .
Yes , I do like him , even if he is a man .
* * * * * February Twentieth .
I've found out what diaries are for ... to work off blue moods in , moods that come on without any reason whatever and therefore can't be confided to any fellow creature .
You scribble away for a while ... and then it's all gone ... and your soul feels clear as crystal once more .
I always go to Sidney now in a blue mood that has a real cause .
He can cheer me up in five minutes .
But in such a one as this , which is quite unaccountable , there's nothing for it but a diary .
Sidney has been living at Stillwater for a month .
It seems as if he must have lived there always .
He came to our place the next day after I met him in the woods .
Everybody made a fuss over him , but he shook them off with an ease I envied and whisked me out to see Don's leg .
He has fixed it up so that it is as good as new now , and the dogs like him almost better than they like me .
We have had splendid times since then .
We are just the jolliest chums and we tramp about everywhere together and go skating and snowshoeing and riding .
We read a lot of books together too , and Sidney always explains everything I don't understand .
I 'm not a bit shy and I can always find plenty to say to him .
He isn't at all like any other man I know .
Everybody likes him , but the women seem to be a little afraid of him .
They say he is so terribly cynical and satirical .
He goes into society a good bit , although he says it bores him .
He says he only goes because it would bore him worse to stay home alone .
There's only one thing about Sidney that I hardly like .
I think he rather overdoes it in the matter of treating me as if I were a little girl .
Of course , I don't want him to look upon me as grown up .
But there is a medium in all things , and he really needn't talk as if he thought I was a child of ten and had no earthly interest in anything but sports and dogs .
These are the best things ... I suppose ... but I understand lots of other things too , only I can't convince Sidney that I do .
I know he is laughing at me when I try to show him I 'm not so childish as he thinks me .
He's indulgent and whimsical , just as he would be with a little girl who was making believe to be grown up .
Perhaps next winter , when I put on long dresses and come out , he'll stop regarding me as a child .
But next winter is so horribly far off .
The day we were fussing with Don's leg I told Sidney that Mother said I 'd have to be grown up next winter and how I hated it , and I made him promise that when the time came he would use all his influence to beg me off for another year .
He said he would , because it was a shame to worry children about society .
But somehow I've concluded not to bother making a fuss .
I have to come out some time , and I might as well take the plunge and get it over .
Mrs. Burnett was here this evening fixing up some arrangements for a charity bazaar she and Jen are interested in , and she talked most of the time about Sidney ... for Jen's benefit , I suppose , although Jen and Sid don't get on at all .
They fight every time they meet , so I don't see why Mrs. Burnett should think things .
`` I wonder what he'll do when Mrs. Rennie comes to the Glasgows ' next month , '' said Mrs. Burnett .
`` Why should he do anything ? ''
asked Jen .
`` Oh , well , you know there was something between them ... an understanding if not an engagement ... before she married Rennie .
They met abroad ... my sister told me all about it ... and Mr. Elliot was quite infatuated with her .
She was a very handsome and fascinating girl .
Then she threw him over and married old Jacob Rennie ... for his millions , of course , for he certainly had nothing else to recommend him .
Amy says Mr. Elliot was never the same man again .
But Jacob died obligingly two years ago and Mrs. Rennie is free now ; so I dare say they'll make it up .
No doubt that is why she is coming to Riverton .
Well , it would be a very suitable match . ''
I 'm so glad I never liked Mrs. Burnett .
I wonder if it is true that Sidney did care for that horrid woman ... of course she is horrid !
Didn't she marry an old man for his money ?
... and cares for her still .
It is no business of mine , of course , and it doesn't matter to me at all .
But I rather hope he doesn't ... because it would spoil everything if he got married .
He wouldn't have time to be chums with me then .
I don't know why I feel so dull tonight .
Writing in this diary doesn't seem to have helped me as much as I thought it would , either .
I dare say it's the weather .
It must be the weather .
It is a wet , windy night and the rain is thudding against the window .
I hate rainy nights .
I wonder if Mrs. Rennie is really as handsome as Mrs. Burnett says .
I wonder how old she is .
I wonder if she ever cared for Sidney ... no , she didn't .
No woman who cared for Sidney could ever have thrown him over for an old moneybag .
I wonder if I shall like her .
No , I won't .
I 'm sure I shan't like her .
My head is aching and I 'm going to bed .
* * * * * March Tenth .
Mrs. Rennie was here to dinner tonight .
My head was aching again , and Mother said I needn't go down to dinner if I 'd rather not ; but a dozen headaches could not have kept me back , or a dozen men either , even supposing I 'd have to talk to them all .
I wanted to see Mrs. Rennie .
Nothing has been talked of in Riverton for the last fortnight but Mrs. Rennie .
I've heard of her beauty and charm and costumes until I 'm sick of the subject .
Today I spoke to Sidney about her .
Before I thought I said right out , `` Mrs. Rennie is to dine with us tonight . ''
`` Yes ? ''
he said in a quiet voice .
`` I 'm dying to see her , '' I went on recklessly .
`` I've heard so much about her .
They say she's so beautiful and fascinating .
Is she ?
You ought to know . ''
Sidney swung the sled around and put it in position for another coast .
`` Yes , I know her , '' he admitted tranquilly .
`` She is a very handsome woman , and I suppose most people would consider her fascinating .
Come , Nic , get on the sled .
We have just time for one more coast , and then you must go in . ''
`` You were once a good friend ... a very good friend ... of Mrs. Rennie's , weren't you , Sid ? ''
I said .
A little mocking gleam crept into his eyes , and I instantly realized that he was looking upon me as a rather impertinent child .
`` You've been listening to gossip , Nic , '' he said .
`` It's a bad habit , child .
Don't let it grow on you .
Come . ''
I went , feeling crushed and furious and ashamed .
I knew her at once when I went down to the drawing-room .
There were three other strange women there , but I knew she was the only one who could be Mrs. Rennie .
I felt such a horrible queer sinking feeling at my heart when I saw her .
Oh , she was beautiful ... I had never seen anyone so beautiful .
And Sidney was standing beside her , talking to her , with a smile on his face , but none in his eyes ... I noticed that at a glance .
She was so tall and slender and willowy .
Her dress was wonderful , and her bare throat and shoulders were like pearls .
Her hair was pale , pale gold , and her eyes long-lashed and sweet , and her mouth like a scarlet blossom against her creamy face .
I thought of how I must look beside her ... an awkward little girl in a short skirt with my hair in a braid and too many hands and feet , and I would have given anything then to be tall and grown-up and graceful .
I watched her all the evening and the queer feeling in me somewhere grew worse and worse .
I couldn't eat anything .
Sidney took Mrs. Rennie in ; they sat opposite to me and talked all the time .
I was so glad when the dinner was over and everybody gone .
The first thing I did when I escaped to my room was to go to the glass and look myself over just as critically and carefully as if I were somebody else .
I saw a great rope of dark brown hair ... a brown skin with red cheeks ... a big red mouth ... a pair of grey eyes .
That was all .
And when I thought of that shimmering witch woman with her white skin and shining hair I wanted to put out the light and cry in the dark .
Only I've never cried since I was a child and broke my last doll , and I've got so out of the habit that I don't know how to go about it .
* * * * * April Fifth .
Aunt Jemima would not think I was getting the good out of my diary .
A whole month and not a word !
But there was nothing to write , and I've felt too miserable to write if there had been .
I don't know what is the matter with me .
I 'm just cross and horrid to everyone , even to poor Sidney .
Mrs. Rennie has been queening it in Riverton society for the past month .
People rave over her and I admire her horribly , although I don't like her .
Mrs. Burnett says that a match between her and Sidney Elliot is a foregone conclusion .
It's plain to be seen that Mrs. Rennie loves Sidney .
Even I can see that , and I don't know much about such things .
But it puzzles me to know how Sidney regards her .
I have never thought he showed any sign of really caring for her .
But then , he isn't the kind that would .
`` Nic , I wonder if you will ever grow up , '' he said to me today , laughing , when he caught me racing over the lawn with the dogs .
`` I 'm grown up now , '' I said crossly .
`` Why , I 'm eighteen and a half and I 'm two inches taller than any of the other girls . ''
Sidney laughed , as if he were heartily amused at something .
`` You 're a blessed baby , '' he said , `` and the dearest , truest , jolliest little chum ever a fellow had .
I don't know what I 'd do without you , Nic .
You keep me sane and wholesome .
I 'm a tenfold better man for knowing you , little girl . ''
I was rather pleased .
It was nice to think I was some good to Sidney .
`` Are you going to the Trents ' dinner tonight ? ''
I asked .
`` Yes , '' he said briefly .
`` Mrs. Rennie will be there , '' I said .
Sidney nodded .
`` Do you think her so very handsome , Sidney ? ''
I said .
I had never mentioned Mrs. Rennie to him since the day we were coasting , and I didn't mean to now .
The question just asked itself .
`` Yes , very ; but not as handsome as you will be ten years from now , Nic , '' said Sidney lightly .
`` Do you think I 'm handsome , Sidney ? ''
I cried .
`` You will be when you 're grown up , '' he answered , looking at me critically .
`` Will you be going to Mrs. Greaves ' reception after the dinner ? ''
I asked .
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' said Sidney absently .
I could see he wasn't thinking of me at all .
I wondered if he were thinking of Mrs. Rennie .
* * * * * April Sixth .
Oh , something so wonderful has happened .
I can hardly believe it .
There are moments when I quake with the fear that it is all a dream .
I wonder if I can really be the same Cornelia Marshall I was yesterday .
No , I 'm not the same ... and the difference is so blessed .
Oh , I 'm so happy !
My heart bubbles over with happiness and song .
It's so wonderful and lovely to be a woman and know it and know that other people know it .
You dear diary , you were made for this moment ... I shall write all about it in you and so fulfil your destiny .
And then I shall put you away and never write anything more in you , because I shall not need you ... I shall have Sidney .
Last night I was all alone in the house ... and I was so lonely and miserable .
I put my chin on my hands and I thought ... and thought ... and thought .
I imagined Sidney at the Greaves ' , talking to Mrs. Rennie with that velvety smile in his eyes .
I could see her , graceful and white , in her trailing , clinging gown , with diamonds about her smooth neck and in her hair .
I suddenly wondered what I would look like in evening dress with my hair up .
I wondered if Sidney would like me in it .
All at once I got up and rushed to Sue's room .
I lighted the gas , rummaged , and went to work .
I piled my hair on top of my head , pinned it there , and thrust a long silver dagger through it to hold a couple of pale white roses she had left on her table .
Then I put on her last winter's party dress .
It was such a pretty pale yellow thing , with touches of black lace , and it didn't matter about its being a little old-fashioned , since it fitted me like a glove .
Finally I stepped back and looked at myself .
I saw a woman in that glass ... a tall , straight creature with crimson cheeks and glowing eyes ... and the thought in my mind was so insistent that it said itself aloud : `` Oh , I wish Sidney could see me now ! ''
At that very moment the maid knocked at the door to tell me that Mr. Elliot was downstairs asking for me .
I did not hesitate a second .
With my heart beating wildly I trailed downstairs to Sidney .
He was standing by the fireplace when I went in , and looked very tired .
When he heard me he turned his head and our eyes met .
All at once a terrible thing happened ... at least , I thought it a terrible thing then .
I knew why I had wanted Sidney to realize that I was no longer a child .
It was because I loved him !
I knew it the moment I saw that strange , new expression leap into his eyes .
`` Cornelia , '' he said in a stunned sort of voice .
`` Why ... Nic ... why , little girl ... you 're a woman !
How blind I've been !
And now I've lost my little chum . ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' I said wildly .
I was so miserable and confused I didn't know what I said .
`` Never , Sidney .
I 'd rather be a little girl and have you for a friend ... I'll always be a little girl !
It's all this hateful dress .
I'll go and take it off ... I'll ... '' And then I just put my hands up to my burning face and the tears that would never come before came in a flood .
All at once I felt Sidney's arms about me and felt my head drawn to his shoulder .
`` Don't cry , dearest , '' I heard him say softly .
`` You can never be a little girl to me again ... my eyes are opened ... but I didn't want you to be .
I want you to be my big girl ... mine , all mine , forever . ''
What happened after that isn't to be written in a diary .
I won't even write down the things he said about how I looked , because it would seem so terribly vain , but I can't help thinking of them , for I am so happy .
