David Hartley had dropped in to pay a neighbourly call on Josephine Elliott .
It was well along in the afternoon , and outside , in the clear crispness of a Canadian winter , the long blue shadows from the tall firs behind the house were falling over the snow .
It was a frosty day , and all the windows of every room where there was no fire were covered with silver palms .
But the big , bright kitchen was warm and cosy , and somehow seemed to David more tempting than ever before , and that is saying a good deal .
He had an uneasy feeling that he had stayed long enough and ought to go .
Josephine was knitting at a long gray sock with doubly aggressive energy , and that was a sign that she was talked out .
As long as Josephine had plenty to say , her plump white fingers , where her mother's wedding ring was lost in dimples , moved slowly among her needles .
When conversation flagged she fell to her work as furiously as if a husband and half a dozen sons were waiting for its completion .
David often wondered in his secret soul what Josephine did with all the interminable gray socks she knitted .
Sometimes he concluded that she put them in the home missionary barrels ; again , that she sold them to her hired man .
At any rate , they were very warm and comfortable looking , and David sighed as he thought of the deplorable state his own socks were generally in .
When David sighed Josephine took alarm .
She was afraid David was going to have one of his attacks of foolishness .
She must head him off someway , so she rolled up the gray sock , stabbed the big pudgy ball with her needles , and said she guessed she 'd get the tea .
David got up .
`` Now , you 're not going before tea ? ''
said Josephine hospitably .
`` I'll have it all ready in no time . ''
`` I ought to go home , I s ` pose , '' said David , with the air and tone of a man dallying with a great temptation .
`` Zillah'll be waiting tea for me ; and there's the stock to tend to . ''
`` I guess Zillah won't wait long , '' said Josephine .
She did not intend it at all , but there was a certain scornful ring in her voice .
`` You must stay .
I've a fancy for company to tea . ''
David sat down again .
He looked so pleased that Josephine went down on her knees behind the stove , ostensibly to get a stick of firewood , but really to hide her smile .
`` I suppose he's tickled to death to think of getting a good square meal , after the starvation rations Zillah puts him on , '' she thought .
But Josephine misjudged David just as much as he misjudged her .
She had really asked him to stay to tea out of pity , but David thought it was because she was lonesome , and he hailed that as an encouraging sign .
And he was not thinking about getting a good meal either , although his dinner had been such a one as only Zillah Hartley could get up .
As he leaned back in his cushioned chair and watched Josephine bustling about the kitchen , he was glorying in the fact that he could spend another hour with her , and sit opposite to her at the table while she poured his tea for him and passed him the biscuits , just as if -- just as if -- Here Josephine looked straight at him with such intent and stern brown eyes that David felt she must have read his thoughts , and he colored guiltily .
But Josephine did not even notice that he was blushing .
She had only paused to wonder whether she would bring out cherry or strawberry preserve ; and , having decided on the cherry , took her piercing gaze from David without having seen him at all .
But he allowed his thoughts no more vagaries .
Josephine set the table with her mother's wedding china .
She used it because it was the anniversary of her mother's wedding day , but David thought it was out of compliment to him .
And , as he knew quite well that Josephine prized that china beyond all her other earthly possessions , he stroked his smooth-shaven , dimpled chin with the air of a man to whom is offered a very subtly sweet homage .
Josephine whisked in and out of the pantry , and up and down cellar , and with every whisk a new dainty was added to the table .
Josephine , as everybody in Meadowby admitted , was past mistress in the noble art of cookery .
Once upon a time rash matrons and ambitious young wives had aspired to rival her , but they had long ago realised the vanity of such efforts and dropped comfortably back to second place .
Josephine felt an artist's pride in her table when she set the teapot on its stand and invited David to sit in .
There were pink slices of cold tongue , and crisp green pickles and spiced gooseberry , the recipe for which Josephine had invented herself , and which had taken first prize at the Provincial Exhibition for six successive years ; there was a lemon pie which was a symphony in gold and silver , biscuits as light and white as snow , and moist , plummy cubes of fruit cake .
There was the ruby-tinted cherry preserve , a mound of amber jelly , and , to crown all , steaming cups of tea , in flavour and fragrance unequalled .
And Josephine , too , sitting at the head of the table , with her smooth , glossy crimps of black hair and cheeks as rosy clear as they had been twenty years ago , when she had been a slender slip of girlhood and bashful young David Hartley had looked at her over his hymn-book in prayer-meeting and tramped all the way home a few feet behind her , because he was too shy to go boldly up and ask if he might see her home .
All taken together , what wonder if David lost his head over that tea-table and determined to ask Josephine the same old question once more ?
It was eighteen years since he had asked it for the first time , and two years since the last .
He would try his luck again ; Josephine was certainly more gracious than he remembered her to ever have been before .
When the meal was over Josephine cleared the table and washed the dishes .
When she had taken a dry towel and sat down by the window to polish her china David understood that his opportunity had come .
He moved over and sat down beside her on the sofa by the window .
Outside the sun was setting in a magnificent arch of light and colour over the snow-clad hills and deep blue St. Lawrence gulf .
David grasped at the sunset as an introductory factor .
`` Isn't that fine , Josephine ? ''
he said admiringly .
`` It makes me think of that piece of poetry that used to be in the old Fifth Reader when we went to school .
D'ye mind how the teacher used to drill us up in it on Friday afternoons ?
It begun ` Slow sinks more lovely ere his race is run Along Morea's hills the setting sun . ' ''
Then David declaimed the whole passage in a sing-song tone , accompanied by a few crude gestures recalled from long-ago school-boy elocution .
Josephine knew what was coming .
Every time David proposed to her he had begun by reciting poetry .
She twirled her towel around the last plate resignedly .
If it had to come , the sooner it was over the better .
Josephine knew by experience that there was no heading David off , despite his shyness , when he had once got along as far as the poetry .
`` But it's going to be for the last time , '' she said determinedly .
`` I 'm going to settle this question so decidedly to-night that there'll never be a repetition . ''
When David had finished his quotation he laid his hand on Josephine's plump arm .
`` Josephine , '' he said huskily , `` I s ` pose you couldn't -- could you now ?
-- make up your mind to have me .
I wish you would , Josephine -- I wish you would .
Don't you think you could , Josephine ? ''
Josephine folded up her towel , crossed her hands on it , and looked her wooer squarely in the eyes .
`` David Hartley , '' she said deliberately , `` what makes you go on asking me to marry you every once in a while when I've told you times out of mind that I can't and won't ? ''
`` Because I can't help hoping that you'll change your mind through time , '' David replied meekly .
`` Well , you just listen to me .
I will not marry you .
That is in the first place .
And in the second , this is to be final .
It has to be .
You are never to ask me this again under any circumstances .
If you do I will not answer you -- I will not let on I hear you at all ; but , and Josephine spoke very slowly and impressively , I will never speak to you again -- never .
We are good friends now , and I like you real well , and like to have you drop in for a neighbourly chat as often as you wish to , but there'll be an end , short and sudden , to that , if you don't mind what I say . ''
`` Oh , Josephine , ain't that rather hard ? ''
protested David feebly .
It seemed terrible to be cut off from all hope with such finality as this .
`` I mean every word of it , '' returned Josephine calmly .
`` You 'd better go home now , David .
I always feel as if I 'd like to be alone for a spell after a disagreeable experience . ''
David obeyed sadly and put on his cap and overcoat .
Josephine kindly warned him not to slip and break his legs on the porch , because the floor was as icy as anything ; and she even lighted a candle and held it up at the kitchen door to guide him safely out .
David , as he trudged sorrowfully homeward across the fields , carried with him the mental picture of a plump , sonsy woman , in a trim dress of plum-coloured homespun and ruffled blue-check apron , haloed by candlelight .
It was not a very romantic vision , perhaps , but to David it was more beautiful than anything else in the world .
When David was gone Josephine shut the door with a little shiver .
She blew out the candle , for it was not yet dark enough to justify artificial light to her thrifty mind .
She thought the big , empty house , in which she was the only living thing , was very lonely .
It was so still , except for the slow tick of the `` grandfather's clock '' and the soft purr and crackle of the wood in the stove .
Josephine sat down by the window .
`` I wish some of the Sentners would run down , '' she said aloud .
`` If David hadn't been so ridiculous I 'd have got him to stay the evening .
He can be good company when he likes -- he's real well-read and intelligent .
And he must have dismal times at home there with nobody but Zillah . ''
She looked across the yard to the little house at the other side of it , where her French-Canadian hired man lived , and watched the purple spiral of smoke from its chimney curling up against the crocus sky .
Would she run over and see Mrs. Leon Poirier and her little black-eyed , brown-skinned baby ?
No , they never knew what to say to each other .
`` If 't wasn't so cold I 'd go up and see Ida , '' she said .
`` As it is , I guess I 'd better fall back on my knitting , for I saw Jimmy Sentner's toes sticking through his socks the other day .
How setback poor David did look , to be sure !
But I think I've settled that marrying notion of his once for all and I 'm glad of it . ''
She said the same thing next day to Mrs. Tom Sentner , who had come down to help her pick her geese .
They were at work in the kitchen with a big tubful of feathers between them , and on the table a row of dead birds , which Leon had killed and brought in .
Josephine was enveloped in a shapeless print wrapper , and had an apron tied tightly around her head to keep the down out of her beautiful hair , of which she was rather proud .
`` What do you think , Ida ? ''
she said , with a hearty laugh at the recollection .
`` David Hartley was here to tea last night , and asked me to marry him again .
There's a persistent man for you .
I can't brag of ever having had many beaux , but I've certainly had my fair share of proposals . ''
Mrs. Tom did not laugh .
Her thin little face , with its faded prettiness , looked as if she never laughed .
`` Why won't you marry him ? ''
she said fretfully .
`` Why should I ? ''
retorted Josephine .
`` Tell me that , Ida Sentner . ''
`` Because it is high time you were married , '' said Mrs. Tom decisively .
`` I don't believe in women living single .
And I don't see what better you can do than take David Hartley . ''
Josephine looked at her sister with the interested expression of a person who is trying to understand some mental attitude in another which is a standing puzzle to her .
Ida's evident wish to see her married always amused Josephine .
Ida had married very young and for fifteen years her life had been one of drudgery and ill-health .
Tom Sentner was a lazy , shiftless fellow .
He neglected his family and was drunk half his time .
Meadowby people said that he beat his wife when `` on the spree , '' but Josephine did not believe that , because she did not think that Ida could keep from telling her if it were so .
Ida Sentner was not given to bearing her trials in silence .
Had it not been for Josephine's assistance , Tom Sentner's family would have stood an excellent chance of starvation .
Josephine practically kept them , and her generosity never failed or stinted .
She fed and clothed her nephews and nieces , and all the gray socks whose destination puzzled David so much went to the Sentners .
As for Josephine herself , she had a good farm , a comfortable house , a plump bank account , and was an independent , unworried woman .
And yet , in the face of all this , Mrs. Tom Sentner could bewail the fact that Josephine had no husband to look out for her .
Josephine shrugged her shoulders and gave up the conundrum , merely saying ironically , in reply to her sister's remark : `` And go to live with Zillah Hartley ? ''
`` You know very well you wouldn't have to do that .
Ever since John Hartley's wife at the Creek died he's been wanting Zillah to go and keep house for him , and if David got married Zillah 'd go quick .
Catch her staying there if you were mistress !
And David has such a beautiful house !
It's ten times finer than yours , though I don't deny yours is comfortable .
And his farm is the best in Meadowby and joins yours .
Think what a beautiful property they 'd make together .
You 're all right now , Josephine , but what will you do when you get old and have nobody to take care of you ?
I declare the thought worries me at night till I can't sleep . ''
`` I should have thought you had enough worries of your own to keep you awake at nights without taking over any of mine , '' said Josephine drily .
`` As for old age , it's a good ways off for me yet .
When your Jack gets old enough to have some sense he can come here and live with me .
But I 'm not going to marry David Hartley , you can depend on that , Ida , my dear .
I wish you could have heard him rhyming off that poetry last night .
It doesn't seem to matter much what piece he recites -- first thing that comes into his head , I reckon .
I remember one time he went clean through that hymn beginning , ` Hark from the tombs a doleful sound , ' and two years ago it was ` To Mary in Heaven , ' as lackadaisical as you please .
I never had such a time to keep from laughing , but I managed it , for I wouldn't hurt his feelings for the world .
No , I haven't any intention of marrying anybody , but if I had it wouldn't be dear old sentimental , easy-going David . ''
Mrs. Tom thumped a plucked goose down on the bench with an expression which said that she , for one , wasn't going to waste any more words on an idiot .
Easy-going , indeed !
Did Josephine consider that a drawback ?
Mrs. Tom sighed .
If Josephine , she thought , had put up with Tom Sentner's tempers for fifteen years she would know how to appreciate a good-natured man at his real value .
The cold snap which had set in on the day of David's call lasted and deepened for a week .
On Saturday evening , when Mrs. Tom came down for a jug of cream , the mercury of the little thermometer thumping against Josephine's porch was below zero .
The gulf was no longer blue , but white with ice .
Everything outdoors was crackling and snapping .
Inside Josephine had kept roaring fires all through the house but the only place really warm was the kitchen .
`` Wrap your head up well , Ida , '' she said anxiously , when Mrs. Tom rose to go .
`` You've got a bad cold . ''
`` There's a cold going , '' said Mrs. Tom .
`` Everyone has it .
David Hartley was up at our place to-day barking terrible -- a real churchyard cough , as I told him .
He never takes any care of himself .
He said Zillah had a bad cold , too .
Won't she be cranky while it lasts ? ''
Josephine sat up late that night to keep fires on .
She finally went to bed in the little room opposite the big hall stove , and she slept at once , and dreamed that the thumps of the thermometer flapping in the wind against the wall outside grew louder and more insistent until they woke her up .
Some one was pounding on the porch door .
Josephine sprang out of bed and hurried on her wrapper and felt shoes .
She had no doubt that some of the Sentners were sick .
They had a habit of getting sick about that time of night .
She hurried out and opened the door , expecting to see hulking Tom Sentner , or perhaps Ida herself , big-eyed and hysterical .
But David Hartley stood there , panting for breath .
The clear moonlight showed that he had no overcoat on , and he was coughing hard .
Josephine , before she spoke a word , clutched him by the arm and pulled him in out of the wind .
`` For pity's sake , David Hartley , what is the matter ? ''
`` Zillah's awful sick , '' he gasped .
`` I came here because 't was nearest .
Oh , won't you come over , Josephine ?
I've got to go for the doctor and I can't leave her alone .
She's suffering dreadful .
I know you and her ain't on good terms , but you'll come , won't you ? ''
`` Of course I will , '' said Josephine sharply .
`` I 'm not a barbarian , I hope , to refuse to go to the help of a sick person , if 't was my worst enemy .
I'll go in and get ready and you go straight to the hall stove and warm yourself .
There's a good fire in it yet .
What on earth do you mean , starting out on a bitter night like this without an overcoat or even mittens , and you with a cold like that ? ''
`` I never thought of them , I was so frightened , '' said David apologetically .
`` I just lit up a fire in the kitchen stove as quick's I could and run .
It rattled me to hear Zillah moaning so's you could hear her all over the house . ''
`` You need someone to look after you as bad as Zillah does , '' said Josephine severely .
In a very few minutes she was ready , with a basket packed full of homely remedies , `` for like as not there'll be no putting one's hand on anything there , '' she muttered .
She insisted on wrapping her big plaid shawl around David's head and neck , and made him put on a pair of mittens she had knitted for Jack Sentner .
Then she locked the door and they started across the gleaming , crusted field .
It was so slippery that Josephine had to cling to David's arm to keep her feet .
In the rapture of supporting her David almost forgot everything else .
In a few minutes they had passed under the bare , glistening boughs of the poplars on David's lawn , and for the first time Josephine crossed the threshold of David Hartley's house .
Years ago , in her girlhood , when the Hartley's lived in the old house and there were half a dozen girls at home , Josephine had frequently visited there .
All the Hartley girls liked her except Zillah .
She and Zillah never `` got on '' together .
When the other girls had married and gone , Josephine gave up visiting there .
She had never been inside the new house , and she and Zillah had not spoken to each other for years .
Zillah was a sick woman -- too sick to be anything but civil to Josephine .
David started at once for the doctor at the Creek , and Josephine saw that he was well wrapped up before she let him go .
Then she mixed up a mustard plaster for Zillah and sat down by the bedside to wait .
When Mrs. Tom Sentner came down the next day she found Josephine busy making flaxseed poultices , with her lips set in a line that betokened she had made up her mind to some disagreeable course of duty .
`` Zillah has got pneumonia bad , '' she said , in reply to Mrs. Tom's inquiries .
`` The Doctor is here and Mary Bell from the Creek .
She'll wait on Zillah , but there'll have to be another woman here to see to the work .
I reckon I'll stay .
I suppose it's my duty and I don't see who else could be got .
You can send Mamie and Jack down to stay at my house until I can go back .
I'll run over every day and keep an eye on things . ''
At the end of a week Zillah was out of danger .
Saturday afternoon Josephine went over home to see how Mamie and Jack were getting on .
She found Mrs. Tom there , and the latter promptly despatched Jack and Mamie to the post-office that she might have an opportunity to hear Josephine's news .
`` I've had an awful week of it , Ida , '' said Josephine solemnly , as she sat down by the stove and put her feet up on the glowing hearth .
`` I suppose Zillah is pretty cranky to wait on , '' said Mrs. Tom sympathetically .
`` Oh , it isn't Zillah .
Mary Bell looks after her .
No , it's the house .
I never lived in such a place of dust and disorder in my born days .
I 'm sorrier for David Hartley than I ever was for anyone before . ''
`` I suppose he's used to it , '' said Mrs. Tom with a shrug .
`` I don't see how anyone could ever get used to it , '' groaned Josephine .
`` And David used to be so particular when he was a boy .
The minute I went there the other night I took in that kitchen with a look .
I don't believe the paint has even been washed since the house was built .
I honestly don't .
And I wouldn't like to be called upon to swear when the floor was scrubbed either .
The corners were just full of rolls of dust -- you could have shovelled it out .
I swept it out next day and I thought I 'd be choked .
As for the pantry -- well , the less said about that the better .
And it's the same all through the house .
You could write your name on everything .
I couldn't so much as clean up .
Zillah was so sick there couldn't be a bit of noise made .
I did manage to sweep and dust , and I cleaned out the pantry .
And , of course , I saw that the meals were nice and well cooked .
You should have seen David's face .
He looked as if he couldn't get used to having things clean and tasty .
I darned his socks -- he hadn't a whole pair to his name -- and I've done everything I could to give him a little comfort .
Not that I could do much .
If Zillah heard me moving round she 'd send Mary Bell out to ask what the matter was .
When I wanted to go upstairs I 'd have to take off my shoes and tiptoe up on my stocking feet , so's she wouldn't know it .
And I'll have to stay there another fortnight yet .
Zillah won't be able to sit up till then .
I don't really know if I can stand it without falling to and scrubbing the house from garret to cellar in spite of her . ''
Mrs. Tom Sentner did not say much to Josephine .
To herself she said complacently : `` She's sorry for David .
Well , I've always heard that pity was akin to love .
We'll see what comes of this . ''
Josephine did manage to live through that fortnight .
One morning she remarked to David at the breakfast table : `` Well , I think that Mary Bell will be able to attend to the work after today , David .
I guess I'll go home tonight . ''
David's face clouded over .
`` Well , I s ` pose we oughtn't to keep you any longer , Josephine .
I 'm sure it's been awful good of you to stay this long .
I don't know what we 'd have done without you . ''
`` You 're welcome , '' said Josephine shortly .
`` Don't go for to walk home , '' said David ; `` the snow is too deep .
I'll drive you over when you want to go . ''
`` I'll not go before the evening , '' said Josephine slowly .
David went out to his work gloomily .
For three weeks he had been living in comfort .
His wants were carefully attended to ; his meals were well cooked and served , and everything was bright and clean .
And more than all , Josephine had been there , with her cheerful smile and companionable ways .
Well , it was all ended now .
Josephine sat at the breakfast table long after David had gone out .
She scowled at the sugar-bowl and shook her head savagely at the tea-pot .
`` I'll have to do it , '' she said at last .
`` I 'm so sorry for him that I can't do anything else . ''
She got up and went to the window , looking across the snowy field to her own home , nestled between the grove of firs and the orchard .
`` It's awful snug and comfortable , '' she said regretfully , `` and I've always felt set on being free and independent .
But it's no use .
I 'd never have a minute's peace of mind again , thinking of David living here in dirt and disorder , and him so particular and tidy by nature .
No , it's my duty , plain and clear , to come here and make things pleasant for him -- the pointing of Providence , as you might say .
The worst of it is , I'll have to tell him so myself .
He'll never dare to mention the subject again , after what I said to him that night he proposed last .
I wish I hadn't been so dreadful emphatic .
Now I've got to say it myself if it is ever said .
But I'll not begin by quoting poetry , that's one thing sure ! ''
Josephine threw back her head , crowned with its shining braids of jet-black hair , and laughed heartily .
She bustled back to the stove and poked up the fire .
`` I'll have a bit of corned beef and cabbage for dinner , '' she said , `` and I'll make David that pudding he's so fond of .
After all , it's kind of nice to have someone to plan and think for .
It always did seem like a waste of energy to fuss over cooking things when there was nobody but myself to eat them . ''
Josephine sang over her work all day , and David went about his with the face of a man who is going to the gallows without benefit of clergy .
When he came in to supper at sunset his expression was so woe-begone that Josephine had to dodge into the pantry to keep from laughing outright .
She relieved her feelings by pounding the dresser with the potato masher , and then went primly out and took her place at the table .
The meal was not a success from a social point of view .
Josephine was nervous and David glum .
Mary Bell gobbled down her food with her usual haste , and then went away to carry Zillah hers .
Then David said reluctantly : `` If you want to go home now , Josephine , I'll hitch up Red Rob and drive you over . ''
Josephine began to plait the tablecloth .
She wished again that she had not been so emphatic on the occasion of his last proposal .
Without replying to David's suggestion she said crossly , Josephine always spoke crossly when she was especially in earnest , : `` I want to tell you what I think about Zillah .
She's getting better , but she's had a terrible shaking up , and it's my opinion that she won't be good for much all winter .
She won't be able to do any hard work , that's certain .
If you want my advice , I tell you fair and square that I think she 'd better go off for a visit as soon as she's fit .
She thinks so herself .
Clementine wants her to go and stay a spell with her in town .
` Twould be just the thing for her . ''
`` She can go if she wants to , of course , '' said David dully .
`` I can get along by myself for a spell . ''
`` There's no need of your getting along by yourself , '' said Josephine , more crossly than ever .
`` I'll -- I'll come here and keep house for you if you like . ''
David looked at her uncomprehendingly .
`` Wouldn't people kind of gossip ? ''
he asked hesitatingly .
`` Not but what -- '' `` I don't see what they 'd have to gossip about , '' broke in Josephine , `` if we were -- married . ''
David sprang to his feet with such haste that he almost upset the table .
`` Josephine , do you mean that ? ''
he exclaimed .
`` Of course I mean it , '' she said , in a perfectly savage tone .
`` Now , for pity's sake , don't say another word about it just now .
I can't discuss it for a spell .
Go out to your work .
I want to be alone for awhile . ''
For the first and last time David disobeyed her .
Instead of going out , he strode around the table , caught Josephine masterfully in his arms , and kissed her .
And Josephine , after a second's hesitation , kissed him in return .
