John Churchill walked slowly , not as a man walks who is tired , or content to saunter for the pleasure of it , but as one in no haste to reach his destination through dread of it .
The day was well on to late afternoon in mid-spring , and the world was abloom .
Before him and behind him wound a road that ran like a red ribbon through fields of lush clovery green .
The orchards scattered along it were white and fragrant , giving of their incense to a merry south-west wind ; fence-corner nooks were purple with patches of violets or golden-green with the curly heads of young ferns .
The roadside was sprinkled over with the gold dust of dandelions and the pale stars of wild strawberry blossoms .
It seemed a day through which a man should walk lightly and blithely , looking the world and his fellows frankly in the face , and opening his heart to let the springtime in .
But John Churchill walked laggingly , with bent head .
When he met other wayfarers or was passed by them , he did not lift his face , but only glanced up under his eyebrows with a furtive look that was replaced by a sort of shamed relief when they had passed on without recognizing him .
Some of them he knew for friends of the old time .
Ten years had not changed them as he had been changed .
They had spent those ten years in freedom and good repute , under God's blue sky , in His glad air and sunshine .
He , John Churchill , had spent them behind the walls of a prison .
His close-clipped hair was grey ; his figure , encased in an ill-fitting suit of coarse cloth , was stooped and shrunken ; his face was deeply lined ; yet he was not an old man in years .
He was only forty ; he was thirty when he had been convicted of embezzling the bank funds for purposes of speculation and had been sent to prison , leaving behind a wife and father who were broken-hearted and a sister whose pride had suffered more than her heart .
He had never seen them since , but he knew what had happened in his absence .
His wife had died two months later , leaving behind her a baby boy ; his father had died within the year .
He had killed them ; he , John Churchill , who loved them , had killed them as surely as though his hand had struck them down in cold blood .
His sister had taken the baby , his little son whom he had never seen , but for whom he had prepared such a birthright of dishonour .
She had never forgiven her brother and she never wrote to him .
He knew that she would have brought the boy up either in ignorance of his father's crime or in utter detestation of it .
When he came back to the world after his imprisonment , there was not a single friendly hand to clasp his and help him struggle up again .
The best his friends had been able to do for him was to forget him .
He was filled with bitterness and despair and a gnawing hatred of the world of brightness around him .
He had no place in it ; he was an ugly blot on it .
He was a friendless , wifeless , homeless man who could not so much as look his fellow men in the face , who must henceforth consort with outcasts .
In his extremity he hated God and man , burning with futile resentment against both .
Only one feeling of tenderness yet remained in his heart ; it centred around the thought of his little son .
When he left the prison he had made up his mind what to do .
He had a little money which his father had left him , enough to take him west .
He would go there , under a new name .
There would be novelty and adventure to blot out the memories of the old years .
He did not care what became of him , since there was no one else to care .
He knew in his heart that his future career would probably lead him still further and further downward , but that did not matter .
If there had been anybody to care , he might have thought it worthwhile to struggle back to respectability and trample his shame under feet that should henceforth walk only in the ways of honour and honesty .
But there was nobody to care .
So he would go to his own place .
But first he must see little Joey , who must be quite a big boy now , nearly ten years old .
He would go home and see him just once , even although he dreaded meeting aversion in the child's eyes .
Then , when he had bade him good-bye , and , with him , good-bye to all that remained to make for good in his desolated existence , he would go out of his life forever .
`` I'll go straight to the devil then , '' he said sullenly .
`` That's where I belong , a jail-bird at whom everybody except other jail-birds looks askance .
To think what I was once , and what I am now !
It's enough to drive a man mad !
As for repenting , bah !
Who 'd believe that I really repented , who 'd give me a second chance on the faith of it ?
Not a soul .
Repentance won't blot out the past .
It won't give me back my wife whom I loved above everything on earth and whose heart I broke .
It won't restore me my unstained name and my right to a place among honourable men .
There's no chance for a man who has fallen as low as I have .
If Emily were living , I could struggle for her sake .
But who 'd be fool enough to attempt such a fight with no motive and not one chance of success in a hundred .
Not I. I 'm down and I'll stay down .
There's no climbing up again . ''
He celebrated his first day of freedom by getting drunk , although he had never before been an intemperate man .
Then , when the effects of the debauch wore off , he took the train for Alliston ; he would go home and see little Joey once .
Nobody at the station where he alighted recognized him or paid any attention to him .
He was as a dead man who had come back to life to find himself effaced from recollection and his place knowing him no more .
It was three miles from the station to where his sister lived , and he resolved to walk the distance .
Now that the critical moment drew near , he shrank from it and wished to put it off as long as he could .
When he reached his sister's home he halted on the road and surveyed the place over its snug respectability of iron fence .
His courage failed him at the thought of walking over that trim lawn and knocking at that closed front door .
He would slip around by the back way ; perhaps , who knew , he might come upon Joey without running the gauntlet of his sister's cold , offended eyes .
If he might only find the boy and talk to him for a little while without betraying his identity , meet his son's clear gaze without the danger of finding scorn or fear in it -- his heart beat high at the thought .
He walked furtively up the back way between high , screening hedges of spruce .
When he came to the gate of the yard , he paused .
He heard voices just beyond the thick hedge , children's voices , and he crept as near as he could to the sound and peered through the hedge , with a choking sensation in his throat and a smart in his eyes .
Was that Joey , could that be his little son ?
Yes , it was ; he would have known him anywhere by his likeness to Emily .
Their boy had her curly brown hair , her sensitive mouth , above all , her clear-gazing , truthful grey eyes , eyes in which there was never a shadow of falsehood or faltering .
Joey Churchill was sitting on a stone bench in his aunt's kitchen yard , holding one of his black-stockinged knees between his small , brown hands .
Jimmy Morris was standing opposite to him , his back braced against the trunk of a big , pink-blossomed apple tree , his hands in his pockets , and a scowl on his freckled face .
Jimmy lived next door to Joey and as a rule they were very good friends , but this afternoon they had quarrelled over the right and proper way to construct an Indian ambush in the fir grove behind the pig-house .
The argument was long and warm and finally culminated in personalities .
Just as John Churchill dropped on one knee behind the hedge , the better to see Joey's face , Jimmy Morris said scornfully : `` I don't care what you say .
Nobody believes you .
Your father is in the penitentiary . ''
The taunt struck home as it always did .
It was not the first time that Joey had been twitted with his father by his boyish companions .
But never before by Jimmy !
It always hurt him , and he had never before made any response to it .
His face would flush crimson , his lips would quiver , and his big grey eyes darken miserably with the shadow that was on his life ; he would turn away in silence .
But that Jimmy , his best beloved chum , should say such a thing to him ; oh , it hurt terribly .
There is nothing so merciless as a small boy .
Jimmy saw his advantage and vindictively pursued it .
`` Your father stole money , that's what he did !
You know he did .
I 'm pretty glad my father isn't a thief .
Your father is .
And when he gets out of prison , he'll go on stealing again .
My father says he will .
Nobody'll have anything to do with him , my father says .
His own sister won't have anything to do with him .
So there , Joey Churchill ! ''
`` There will somebody have something to do with him ! ''
cried Joey hotly .
He slid off the bench and faced Jimmy proudly and confidently .
The unseen watcher on the other side of the hedge saw his face grow white and intense and set-lipped , as if it had been the face of a man .
The grey eyes were alight with a steady , fearless glow . ''
I'll have something to do with him .
He is my father and I love him .
I don't care what he did , I love him just as well as if he was the best man in the world .
I love him better than if he was as good as your father , because he needs it more .
I've always loved him ever since I found out about him .
I 'd write to him and tell him so , if Aunt Beatrice would tell me where to send the letter .
Aunt Beatrice won't ever talk about him or let me talk about him , but I think about him all the time .
And he's going to be a good man yet , yes , he is , just as good as your father , Jimmy Morris .
I 'm going to make him good .
I made up my mind years ago what I would do and I 'm going to do it , so there , Jimmy . ''
`` I don't see what you can do , '' muttered Jimmy , already ashamed of what he had said and wishing he had let Joey's father alone .
`` I'll tell you what I can do ! ''
Joey was confronting all the world now , with his head thrown back and his face flushed with his earnestness .
`` I can love him and stand by him , and I will .
When he gets out of -- of prison , he'll come to see me , I know he will .
And I 'm just going to hug him and kiss him and say , ` Never mind , Father .
I know you 're sorry for what you've done , and you 're never going to do it any more .
You 're going to be a good man and I 'm going to stand by you . '
Yes , sir , that's just what I 'm going to say to him .
I 'm all the children he has and there's nobody else to love him , because I know Aunt Beatrice doesn't .
And I 'm going with him wherever he goes . ''
`` You can't , '' said Jimmy in a scared tone .
`` Your Aunt Beatrice won't let you . ''
`` Yes , she will .
She'll have to .
I belong to my father .
And I think he'll be coming pretty soon some way .
I 'm pretty sure the time must be ` most up .
I wish he would come .
I want to see him as much as can be , 'cause I know he'll need me .
And I'll be proud of him yet , Jimmy Morris , yes , I'll be just as proud as you are of your father .
When I get bigger , nobody will call my father names , I can tell you .
I'll fight them if they do , yes , sir , I will .
My father and I are going to stand by each other like bricks .
Aunt Beatrice has lots of children of her own and I don't believe she'll be a bit sorry when I go away .
She's ashamed of my father 'cause he did a bad thing .
But I 'm not , no , sir .
I 'm going to love him so much that I'll make up to him for everything else .
And you can just go home , Jimmy Morris , so there ! ''
Jimmy Morris went home , and when he had gone , Joey flung himself face downward in the grass and fallen apple blossoms and lay very still .
On the other side of the spruce hedge knelt John Churchill with bowed head .
The tears were running freely down his face , but there was a new , tender light in his eyes .
The bitterness and despair had fallen out of his heart , leaving a great peace and a dawning hope in their place .
Bless that loyal little soul !
There was something to live for after all -- there was a motive to make the struggle worthwhile .
He must justify his son's faith in him ; he must strive to make himself worthy of this sweet , pure , unselfish love that was offered to him , as a divine draught is offered to the parched lips of a man perishing from thirst .
Aye , and , God helping him , he would .
He would redeem the past .
He would go west , but under his own name .
His little son should go with him ; he would work hard ; he would pay back the money he had embezzled , as much of it as he could , if it took the rest of his life to do so .
For his boy's sake he must cleanse his name from the dishonour he had brought on it .
Oh , thank God , there was somebody to care , somebody to love him , somebody to believe him when he said humbly , `` I repent . ''
Under his breath he said , looking heavenward : `` God be merciful to me , a sinner . ''
Then he stood up erectly , went through the gate and over the grass to the motionless little figure with its face buried in its arms .
`` Joey boy , '' he said huskily .
`` Joey boy . ''
Joey sprang to his feet with tears still glistening in his eyes .
He saw before him a bent , grey-headed man looking at him lovingly and wistfully .
Joey knew who it was -- the father he had never seen .
With a glad cry of welcome he sprang into the outstretched arms of the man whom his love had already won back to God .
