`` Well , I really think Santa Claus has been very good to us all , '' said Jean Lawrence , pulling the pins out of her heavy coil of fair hair and letting it ripple over her shoulders .
`` So do I , '' said Nellie Preston as well as she could with a mouthful of chocolates .
`` Those blessed home folks of mine seem to have divined by instinct the very things I most wanted . ''
It was the dusk of Christmas Eve and they were all in Jean Lawrence's room at No. 16 Chestnut Terrace .
No. 16 was a boarding-house , and boarding-houses are not proverbially cheerful places in which to spend Christmas , but Jean's room , at least , was a pleasant spot , and all the girls had brought their Christmas presents in to show each other .
Christmas came on Sunday that year and the Saturday evening mail at Chestnut Terrace had been an exciting one .
Jean had lighted the pink-globed lamp on her table and the mellow light fell over merry faces as the girls chatted about their gifts .
On the table was a big white box heaped with roses that betokened a bit of Christmas extravagance on somebody's part .
Jean's brother had sent them to her from Montreal , and all the girls were enjoying them in common .
No. 16 Chestnut Terrace was overrun with girls generally .
But just now only five were left ; all the others had gone home for Christmas , but these five could not go and were bent on making the best of it .
Belle and Olive Reynolds , who were sitting on the bed -- Jean could never keep them off it -- were High School girls ; they were said to be always laughing , and even the fact that they could not go home for Christmas because a young brother had measles did not dampen their spirits .
Beth Hamilton , who was hovering over the roses , and Nellie Preston , who was eating candy , were art students , and their homes were too far away to visit .
As for Jean Lawrence , she was an orphan , and had no home of her own .
She worked on the staff of one of the big city newspapers and the other girls were a little in awe of her cleverness , but her nature was a `` chummy '' one and her room was a favourite rendezvous .
Everybody liked frank , open-handed and hearted Jean .
`` It was so funny to see the postman when he came this evening , '' said Olive .
`` He just bulged with parcels .
They were sticking out in every direction . ''
`` We all got our share of them , '' said Jean with a sigh of content .
`` Even the cook got six -- I counted . ''
`` Miss Allen didn't get a thing -- not even a letter , '' said Beth quickly .
Beth had a trick of seeing things that other girls didn't .
`` I forgot Miss Allen .
No , I don't believe she did , '' answered Jean thoughtfully as she twisted up her pretty hair .
`` How dismal it must be to be so forlorn as that on Christmas Eve of all times .
Ugh !
I 'm glad I have friends . ''
`` I saw Miss Allen watching us as we opened our parcels and letters , '' Beth went on .
`` I happened to look up once , and such an expression as was on her face , girls !
It was pathetic and sad and envious all at once .
It really made me feel bad -- for five minutes , '' she concluded honestly .
`` Hasn't Miss Allen any friends at all ? ''
asked Beth .
`` No , I don't think she has , '' answered Jean .
`` She has lived here for fourteen years , so Mrs. Pickrell says .
Think of that , girls !
Fourteen years at Chestnut Terrace !
Is it any wonder that she is thin and dried-up and snappy ? ''
`` Nobody ever comes to see her and she never goes anywhere , '' said Beth .
`` Dear me !
She must feel lonely now when everybody else is being remembered by their friends .
I can't forget her face tonight ; it actually haunts me .
Girls , how would you feel if you hadn't anyone belonging to you , and if nobody thought about you at Christmas ? ''
`` Ow ! ''
said Olive , as if the mere idea made her shiver .
A little silence followed .
To tell the truth , none of them liked Miss Allen .
They knew that she did not like them either , but considered them frivolous and pert , and complained when they made a racket .
`` The skeleton at the feast , '' Jean called her , and certainly the presence of the pale , silent , discontented-looking woman at the No. 16 table did not tend to heighten its festivity .
Presently Jean said with a dramatic flourish , `` Girls , I have an inspiration -- a Christmas inspiration ! ''
`` What is it ? ''
cried four voices .
`` Just this .
Let us give Miss Allen a Christmas surprise .
She has not received a single present and I 'm sure she feels lonely .
Just think how we would feel if we were in her place . ''
`` That is true , '' said Olive thoughtfully .
`` Do you know , girls , this evening I went to her room with a message from Mrs. Pickrell , and I do believe she had been crying .
Her room looked dreadfully bare and cheerless , too .
I think she is very poor .
What are we to do , Jean ? ''
`` Let us each give her something nice .
We can put the things just outside of her door so that she will see them whenever she opens it .
I'll give her some of Fred's roses too , and I'll write a Christmassy letter in my very best style to go with them , '' said Jean , warming up to her ideas as she talked .
The other girls caught her spirit and entered into the plan with enthusiasm .
`` Splendid ! ''
cried Beth .
`` Jean , it is an inspiration , sure enough .
Haven't we been horribly selfish -- thinking of nothing but our own gifts and fun and pleasure ?
I really feel ashamed . ''
`` Let us do the thing up the very best way we can , '' said Nellie , forgetting even her beloved chocolates in her eagerness .
`` The shops are open yet .
Let us go up town and invest . ''
Five minutes later five capped and jacketed figures were scurrying up the street in the frosty , starlit December dusk .
Miss Allen in her cold little room heard their gay voices and sighed .
She was crying by herself in the dark .
It was Christmas for everybody but her , she thought drearily .
In an hour the girls came back with their purchases .
`` Now , let's hold a council of war , '' said Jean jubilantly .
`` I hadn't the faintest idea what Miss Allen would like so I just guessed wildly .
I got her a lace handkerchief and a big bottle of perfume and a painted photograph frame -- and I'll stick my own photo in it for fun .
That was really all I could afford .
Christmas purchases have left my purse dreadfully lean . ''
`` I got her a glove-box and a pin tray , '' said Belle , `` and Olive got her a calendar and Whittier's poems .
And besides we are going to give her half of that big plummy fruit cake Mother sent us from home .
I 'm sure she hasn't tasted anything so delicious for years , for fruit cakes don't grow on Chestnut Terrace and she never goes anywhere else for a meal . ''
Beth had bought a pretty cup and saucer and said she meant to give one of her pretty water-colours too .
Nellie , true to her reputation , had invested in a big box of chocolate creams , a gorgeously striped candy cane , a bag of oranges , and a brilliant lampshade of rose-coloured crepe paper to top off with .
`` It makes such a lot of show for the money , '' she explained .
`` I am bankrupt , like Jean . ''
`` Well , we've got a lot of pretty things , '' said Jean in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Now we must do them up nicely .
Will you wrap them in tissue paper , girls , and tie them with baby ribbon -- here's a box of it -- while I write that letter ? ''
While the others chatted over their parcels Jean wrote her letter , and Jean could write delightful letters .
She had a decided talent in that respect , and her correspondents all declared her letters to be things of beauty and joy forever .
She put her best into Miss Allen's Christmas letter .
Since then she has written many bright and clever things , but I do not believe she ever in her life wrote anything more genuinely original and delightful than that letter .
Besides , it breathed the very spirit of Christmas , and all the girls declared that it was splendid .
`` You must all sign it now , '' said Jean , `` and I'll put it in one of those big envelopes ; and , Nellie , won't you write her name on it in fancy letters ? ''
Which Nellie proceeded to do , and furthermore embellished the envelope by a border of chubby cherubs , dancing hand in hand around it and a sketch of No. 16 Chestnut Terrace in the corner in lieu of a stamp .
Not content with this she hunted out a huge sheet of drawing paper and drew upon it an original pen-and-ink design after her own heart .
A dudish cat -- Miss Allen was fond of the No. 16 cat if she could be said to be fond of anything -- was portrayed seated on a rocker arrayed in smoking jacket and cap with a cigar waved airily aloft in one paw while the other held out a placard bearing the legend `` Merry Christmas . ''
A second cat in full street costume bowed politely , hat in paw , and waved a banner inscribed with `` Happy New Year , '' while faintly suggested kittens gambolled around the border .
The girls laughed until they cried over it and voted it to be the best thing Nellie had yet done in original work .
All this had taken time and it was past eleven o'clock .
Miss Allen had cried herself to sleep long ago and everybody else in Chestnut Terrace was abed when five figures cautiously crept down the hall , headed by Jean with a dim lamp .
Outside of Miss Allen's door the procession halted and the girls silently arranged their gifts on the floor .
`` That's done , '' whispered Jean in a tone of satisfaction as they tiptoed back .
`` And now let us go to bed or Mrs. Pickrell , bless her heart , will be down on us for burning so much midnight oil .
Oil has gone up , you know , girls . ''
It was in the early morning that Miss Allen opened her door .
But early as it was , another door down the hall was half open too and five rosy faces were peering cautiously out .
The girls had been up for an hour for fear they would miss the sight and were all in Nellie's room , which commanded a view of Miss Allen's door .
That lady's face was a study .
Amazement , incredulity , wonder , chased each other over it , succeeded by a glow of pleasure .
On the floor before her was a snug little pyramid of parcels topped by Jean's letter .
On a chair behind it was a bowl of delicious hot-house roses and Nellie's placard .
Miss Allen looked down the hall but saw nothing , for Jean had slammed the door just in time .
Half an hour later when they were going down to breakfast Miss Allen came along the hall with outstretched hands to meet them .
She had been crying again , but I think her tears were happy ones ; and she was smiling now .
A cluster of Jean's roses were pinned on her breast .
`` Oh , girls , girls , '' she said , with a little tremble in her voice , `` I can never thank you enough .
It was so kind and sweet of you .
You don't know how much good you have done me . ''
Breakfast was an unusually cheerful affair at No. 16 that morning .
There was no skeleton at the feast and everybody was beaming .
Miss Allen laughed and talked like a girl herself .
`` Oh , how surprised I was ! ''
she said .
`` The roses were like a bit of summer , and those cats of Nellie's were so funny and delightful .
And your letter too , Jean !
I cried and laughed over it .
I shall read it every day for a year . ''
After breakfast everyone went to Christmas service .
The girls went uptown to the church they attended .
The city was very beautiful in the morning sunshine .
There had been a white frost in the night and the tree-lined avenues and public squares seemed like glimpses of fairyland .
`` How lovely the world is , '' said Jean .
`` This is really the very happiest Christmas morning I have ever known , '' declared Nellie .
`` I never felt so really Christmassy in my inmost soul before . ''
`` I suppose , '' said Beth thoughtfully , `` that it is because we have discovered for ourselves the old truth that it is more blessed to give than to receive .
I've always known it , in a way , but I never realized it before . ''
`` Blessing on Jean's Christmas inspiration , '' said Nellie .
`` But , girls , let us try to make it an all-the-year-round inspiration , I say .
We can bring a little of our own sunshine into Miss Allen's life as long as we live with her . ''
`` Amen to that ! ''
said Jean heartily .
`` Oh , listen , girls -- the Christmas chimes ! ''
And over all the beautiful city was wafted the grand old message of peace on earth and good will to all the world .
