Once upon a time a man had a shepherd who served him many years faithfully and honestly .
One day , whilst herding his flock , this shepherd heard a hissing sound , coming out of the forest near by , which he could not account for .
So he went into the wood in the direction of the noise to try to discover the cause .
When he approached the place he found that the dry grass and leaves were on fire , and on a tree , surrounded by flames , a snake was coiled , hissing with terror .
The shepherd stood wondering how the poor snake could escape , for the wind was blowing the flames that way , and soon that tree would be burning like the rest .
Suddenly the snake cried : ' O shepherd !
for the love of heaven save me from this fire ! '
Then the shepherd stretched his staff out over the flames and the snake wound itself round the staff and up to his hand , and from his hand it crept up his arm , and twined itself about his neck .
The shepherd trembled with fright , expecting every instant to be stung to death , and said : ` What an unlucky man I am !
Did I rescue you only to be destroyed myself ? '
But the snake answered : ` Have no fear ; only carry me home to my father who is the King of the Snakes . '
The shepherd , however , was much too frightened to listen , and said that he could not go away and leave his flock alone ; but the snake said : ` You need not be afraid to leave your flock , no evil shall befall them ; but make all the haste you can . '
So he set off through the wood carrying the snake , and after a time he came to a great gateway , made entirely of snakes intertwined one with another .
The shepherd stood still with surprise , but the snake round his neck whistled , and immediately all the arch unwound itself .
` When we are come to my father's house , ' said his own snake to him , ` he will reward you with anything you like to ask -- silver , gold , jewels , or whatever on this earth is most precious ; but take none of all these things , ask rather to understand the language of beasts .
He will refuse it to you a long time , but in the end he will grant it to you . '
Soon after that they arrived at the house of the King of the Snakes , who burst into tears of joy at the sight of his daughter , as he had given her up for dead .
` Where have you been all this time ? '
he asked , directly he could speak , and she told him that she had been caught in a forest fire , and had been rescued from the flames by the shepherd .
The King of the Snakes , then turning to the shepherd , said to him : ` What reward will you choose for saving my child ? '
` Make me to know the language of beasts , ' answered the shepherd , ` that is all I desire . '
The king replied : ` Such knowledge would be of no benefit to you , for if I granted it to you and you told any one of it , you would immediately die ; ask me rather for whatever else you would most like to possess , and it shall be yours . '
But the shepherd answered him : ` Sir , if you wish to reward me for saving your daughter , grant me , I pray you , to know the language of beasts .
I desire nothing else ' ; and he turned as if to depart .
Then the king called him back , saying : ` If nothing else will satisfy you , open your mouth . '
The man obeyed , and the king spat into it , and said : ` Now spit into my mouth . '
The shepherd did as he was told , then the King of the Snakes spat again into the shepherd's mouth .
When they had spat into each other's mouths three times , the king said : ` Now you know the language of beasts , go in peace ; but , if you value your life , beware lest you tell any one of it , else you will immediately die . '
So the shepherd set out for home , and on his way through the wood he heard and understood all that was said by the birds , and by every living creature .
When he got back to his sheep he found the flock grazing peacefully , and as he was very tired he laid himself down by them to rest a little .
Hardly had he done so when two ravens flew down and perched on a tree near by , and began to talk to each other in their own language : ` If that shepherd only knew that there is a vault full of gold and silver beneath where that lamb is lying , what would he not do ? '
When the shepherd heard these words he went straight to his master and told him , and the master at once took a waggon , and broke open the door of the vault , and they carried off the treasure .
But instead of keeping it for himself , the master , who was an honourable man , gave it all up to the shepherd , saying : ` Take it , it is yours .
The gods have given it to you . '
So the shepherd took the treasure and built himself a house .
He married a wife , and they lived in great peace and happiness , and he was acknowledged to be the richest man , not only of his native village , but of all the country-side .
He had flocks of sheep , and cattle , and horses without end , as well as beautiful clothes and jewels .
One day , just before Christmas , he said to his wife : ` Prepare everything for a great feast , to-morrow we will take things with us to the farm that the shepherds there may make merry . '
The wife obeyed , and all was prepared as he desired .
Next day they both went to the farm , and in the evening the master said to the shepherds : ` Now come , all of you , eat , drink , and make merry .
I will watch the flocks myself to-night in your stead . '
Then he went out to spend the night with the flocks .
When midnight struck the wolves howled and the dogs barked , and the wolves spoke in their own tongue , saying : ` Shall we come in and work havoc , and you too shall eat flesh ? '
And the dogs answered in their tongue : ` Come in , and for once we shall have enough to eat . '
Now amongst the dogs there was one so old that he had only two teeth left in his head , and he spoke to the wolves , saying : ` So long as I have my two teeth still in my head , I will let no harm be done to my master . '
All this the master heard and understood , and as soon as morning dawned he ordered all the dogs to be killed excepting the old dog .
The farm servants wondered at this order , and exclaimed : ` But surely , sir , that would be a pity ? '
The master answered : ` Do as I bid you ' ; and made ready to return home with his wife , and they mounted their horses , her steed being a mare .
As they went on their way , it happened that the husband rode on ahead , while the wife was a little way behind .
The husband's horse , seeing this , neighed , and said to the mare : ` Come along , make haste ; why are you so slow ? '
And the mare answered : ` It is very easy for you , you carry only your master , who is a thin man , but I carry my mistress , who is so fat that she weights as much as three . '
When the husband heard that he looked back and laughed , which the wife perceiving , she urged on the mare till she caught up with her husband , and asked him why he laughed .
` For nothing at all , ' he answered ; ` just because it came into my head . '
She would not be satisfied with this answer , and urged him more and more to tell her why he had laughed .
But he controlled himself and said : ` Let me be , wife ; what ails you ?
I do not know myself why I laughed . '
But the more he put her off , the more she tormented him to tell her the cause of his laughter .
At length he said to her : ` Know , then , that if I tell it you I shall immediately and surely die . '
But even this did not quiet her ; she only besought him the more to tell her .
Meanwhile they had reached home , and before getting down from his horse the man called for a coffin to be brought ; and when it was there he placed it in front of the house , and said to his wife : ` See , I will lay myself down in this coffin , and will then tell you why I laughed , for as soon as I have told you I shall surely die . '
So he lay down in the coffin , and while he took a last look around him , his old dog came out from the farm and sat down by him , and whined .
When the master saw this , he called to his wife : ` Bring a piece of bread to give to the dog . '
The wife brought some bread and threw it to the dog , but he would not look at it .
Then the farm cock came and pecked at the bread ; but the dog said to it : ` Wretched glutton , you can eat like that when you see that your master is dying ? '
The cock answered : ` Let him die , if he is so stupid .
I have a hundred wives , which I call together when I find a grain of corn , and as soon as they are there I swallow it myself ; should one of them dare to be angry , I would give her a lesson with my beak .
He has only one wife , and he can not keep her in order . '
As soon as the man understood this , he got up out of the coffin , seized a stick , and called his wife into the room , saying : ` Come , and I will tell you what you so much want to know ' ; and then he began to beat her with the stick , saying with each blow : ` It is that , wife , it is that ! '
And in this way he taught her never again to ask why he had laughed .
The Boy Who Could Keep A Secret Once upon a time there lived a poor widow who had one little boy .
At first sight you would not have thought that he was different from a thousand other little boys ; but then you noticed that by his side hung the scabbard of a sword , and as the boy grew bigger the scabbard grew bigger too .
The sword which belonged to the scabbard was found by the little boy sticking out of the ground in the garden , and every day he pulled it up to see if it would go into the scabbard .
But though it was plainly becoming longer and longer , it was some time before the two would fit .
However , there came a day at last when it slipped in quite easily .
The child was so delighted that he could hardly believe his eyes , so he tried it seven times , and each time it slipped in more easily than before .
But pleased though the boy was , he determined not to tell anyone about it , particularly not his mother , who never could keep anything from her neighbours .
Still , in spite of his resolutions , he could not hide altogether that something had happened , and when he went in to breakfast his mother asked him what was the matter .
` Oh , mother , I had such a nice dream last night , ' said he ; ` but I can't tell it to anybody . '
` You can tell it to me , ' she answered .
` It must have been a nice dream , or you wouldn't look so happy . '
` No , mother ; I can't tell it to anybody , ' returned the boy , 'till it comes true . ' '
I want to know what it was , and know it I will , ' cried she , ` and I will beat you till you tell me . '
But it was no use , neither words nor blows would get the secret out of the boy ; and when her arm was quite tired and she had to leave off , the child , sore and aching , ran into the garden and knelt weeping beside his little sword .
It was working round and round in its hole all by itself , and if anyone except the boy had tried to catch hold of it , he would have been badly cut .
But the moment he stretched out his hand it stopped and slid quietly into the scabbard .
For a long time the child sat sobbing , and the noise was heard by the king as he was driving by .
` Go and see who it is that is crying so , ' said he to one of his servants , and the man went .
In a few minutes he returned saying : ` Your Majesty , it is a little boy who is kneeling there sobbing because his mother has beaten him . '
` Bring him to me at once , ' commanded the monarch , ` and tell him that it is the king who sends for him , and that he has never cried in all his life and can not bear anyone else to do so . '
On receiving this message the boy dried his tears and went with the servant to the royal carriage .
` Will you be my son ? '
asked the king .
` Yes , if my mother will let me , ' answered the boy .
And the king bade the servant go back to the mother and say that if she would give her boy to him , he should live in the palace and marry his prettiest daughter as soon as he was a man .
The widow's anger now turned into joy , and she came running to the splendid coach and kissed the king's hand . '
I hope you will be more obedient to his Majesty than you were to me , ' she said ; and the boy shrank away half-frightened .
But when she had gone back to her cottage , he asked the king if he might fetch something that he had left in the garden , and when he was given permission , he pulled up his little sword , which he slid into the scabbard .
Then he climbed into the coach and was driven away .
After they had gone some distance the king said : ` Why were you crying so bitterly in the garden just now ? '
` Because my mother had been beating me , ' replied the boy .
` And what did she do that for ? '
asked the king again .
` Because I would not tell her my dream . '
` And why wouldn't you tell it to her ? '
` Because I will never tell it to anyone till it comes true , ' answered the boy .
` And won't you tell it to me either ? '
asked the king in surprise .
` No , not even to you , your Majesty , ' replied he .
` Oh , I am sure you will when we get home , ' said the king smiling , and he talked to him about other things till they came to the palace . '
I have brought you such a nice present , ' he said to his daughters , and as the boy was very pretty they were delighted to have him and gave him all their best toys .
` You must not spoil him , ' observed the king one day , when he had been watching them playing together .
He has a secret which he won't tell to anyone . '
` He will tell me , ' answered the eldest princess ; but the boy only shook his head .
` He will tell me , ' said the second girl .
` Not I , ' replied the boy .
` He will tell me , ' cried the youngest , who was the prettiest too . '
I will tell nobody till it comes true , ' said the boy , as he had said before ; ` and I will beat anybody who asks me . '
The king was very sorry when he heard this , for he loved the boy dearly ; but he thought it would never do to keep anyone near him who would not do as he was bid .
So he commanded his servants to take him away and not to let him enter the palace again until he had come to his right senses .
The sword clanked loudly as the boy was led away , but the child said nothing , though he was very unhappy at being treated so badly when he had done nothing .
However , the servants were very kind to him , and their children brought him fruit and all sorts of nice things , and he soon grew merry again , and lived amongst them for many years till his seventeenth birthday .
Meanwhile the two eldest princesses had become women , and had married two powerful kings who ruled over great countries across the sea .
The youngest one was old enough to be married too , but she was very particular , and turned up her nose at all the young princes who had sought her hand .
One day she was sitting in the palace feeling rather dull and lonely , and suddenly she began to wonder what the servants were doing , and whether it was not more amusing down in their quarters .
The king was at his council and the queen was ill in bed , so there was no one to stop the princess , and she hastily ran across the gardens to the houses where the servants lived .
Outside she noticed a youth who was handsomer than any prince she had ever seen , and in a moment she knew him to be the little boy she had once played with .
` Tell me your secret and I will marry you , ' she said to him ; but the boy only gave her the beating he had promised her long ago , when she asked him the same question .
The girl was very angry , besides being hurt , and ran home to complain to her father .
` If he had a thousand souls , I would kill them all , ' swore the king .
That very day a gallows was built outside the town , and all the people crowded round to see the execution of the young man who had dared to beat the king's daughter .
The prisoner , with his hands tied behind his back , was brought out by the hangman , and amidst dead silence his sentence was being read by the judge when suddenly the sword clanked against his side .
Instantly a great noise was heard and a golden coach rumbled over the stones , with a white flag waving out of the window .
It stopped underneath the gallows , and from it stepped the king of the Magyars , who begged that the life of the boy might be spared .
` Sir , he has beaten my daughter , who only asked him to tell her his secret .
I can not pardon that , ' answered the princess's father .
` Give him to me , I 'm sure he will tell me the secret ; or , if not , I have a daughter who is like the Morning Star , and he is sure to tell it to her . '
The sword clanked for the third time , and the king said angrily : ` Well , if you want him so much you can have him ; only never let me see his face again . '
And he made a sign to the hangman .
The bandage was removed from the young man's eyes , and the cords from his wrists , and he took his seat in the golden coach beside the king of the Magyars .
Then the coachman whipped up his horses , and they set out for Buda .
The king talked very pleasantly for a few miles , and when he thought that his new companion was quite at ease with him , he asked him what was the secret which had brought him into such trouble .
` That I can not tell you , ' answered the youth , ` until it comes true . '
` You will tell my daughter , ' said the king , smiling . '
I will tell nobody , ' replied the youth , and as he spoke the sword clanked loudly .
The king said no more , but trusted to his daughter's beauty to get the secret from him .
The journey to Buda was long , and it was several days before they arrived there .
The beautiful princess happened to be picking roses in the garden , when her father's coach drove up .
` Oh , what a handsome youth !
Have you brought him from fairyland ? '
cried she , when they all stood upon the marble steps in front of the castle . '
I have brought him from the gallows , ' answered the king ; rather vexed at his daughter's words , as never before had she consented to speak to any man . '
I don't care where you brought him from , ' said the spoilt girl . '
I will marry him and nobody else , and we will live together till we die . '
` You will tell another tale , ' replied the king , ` when you ask him his secret .
After all he is no better than a servant . '
` That is nothing to me , ' said the princess , ` for I love him .
He will tell his secret to me , and will find a place in the middle of my heart . '
But the king shook his head , and gave orders that the lad was to be lodged in the summer-house .
One day , about a week later , the princess put on her finest dress , and went to pay him a visit .
She looked so beautiful that , at the sight of her , the book dropped from his hand , and he stood up speechless .
` Tell me , ' she said , coaxingly , ` what is this wonderful secret ?
Just whisper it in my ear , and I will give you a kiss . '
` My angel , ' he answered , ` be wise , and ask no questions , if you wish to get safely back to your father's palace ; I have kept my secret all these years , and do not mean to tell it now . '
However , the girl would not listen , and went on pressing him , till at last he slapped her face so hard that her nose bled .
She shrieked with pain and rage , and ran screaming back to the palace , where her father was waiting to hear if she had succeeded . '
I will starve you to death , you son of a dragon , ' cried he , when he saw her dress streaming with blood ; and he ordered all the masons and bricklayers in the town to come before him .
` Build me a tower as fast as you can , ' he said , ` and see that there is room for a stool and a small table , and for nothing else .
The men set to work , and in two hours the tower was built , and they proceeded to the palace to inform the king that his commands were fulfilled .
On the way they met the princess , who began to talk to one of the masons , and when the rest were out of hearing she asked if he could manage to make a hole in the tower , which nobody could see , large enough for a bottle of wine and some food to pass through .
` To be sure I can , ' said the mason , turning back , and in a few minutes the hole was bored .
At sunset a large crowd assembled to watch the youth being led to the tower , and after his misdeeds had been proclaimed he was solemnly walled up .
But every morning the princess passed him in food through the hole , and every third day the king sent his secretary to climb up a ladder and look down through a little window to see if he was dead .
But the secretary always brought back the report that he was fat and rosy .
` There is some magic about this , ' said the king .
This state of affairs lasted some time , till one day a messenger arrived from the Sultan bearing a letter for the king , and also three canes .
` My master bids me say , ' said the messenger , bowing low , ` that if you can not tell him which of these three canes grows nearest the root , which in the middle , and which at the top , he will declare war against you .
The king was very much frightened when he heard this , and though he took the canes and examined them closely , he could see no difference between them .
He looked so sad that his daughter noticed it , and inquired the reason .
` Alas !
my daughter , ' he answered , ` how can I help being sad ?
The Sultan has sent me three canes , and says that if I can not tell him which of them grows near the root , which in the middle , and which at the top , he will make war upon me .
And you know that his army is far greater than mine . '
` Oh , do not despair , my father , ' said she .
` We shall be sure to find out the answer ' ; and she ran away to the tower , and told the young man what had occurred .
` Go to bed as usual , ' replied he , ` and when you wake , tell your father that you have dreamed that the canes must be placed in warm water .
After a little while one will sink to the bottom ; that is the one that grows nearest the root .
The one which neither sinks nor comes to the surface is the cane that is cut from the middle ; and the one that floats is from the top . '
So , the next morning , the princess told her father of her dream , and by her advice he cut notches in each of the canes when he took them out of the water , so that he might make no mistake when he handed them back to the messenger .
The Sultan could not imagine how he had found out , but he did not declare war .
The following year the Sultan again wanted to pick a quarrel with the king of the Magyars , so he sent another messenger to him with three foals , begging him to say which of the animals was born in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening .
If an answer was not ready in three days , war would be declared at once .
The king's heart sank when he read the letter .
He could not expect his daughter to be lucky enough to dream rightly a second time , and as a plague had been raging through the country , and had carried off many of his soldiers , his army was even weaker than before .
At this thought his face became so gloomy that his daughter noticed it , and inquired what was the matter . '
I have had another letter from the Sultan , ' replied the king , ` and he says that if I can not tell him which of three foals was born in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening , he will declare war at once . '
` Oh , don't be cast down , ' said she , ` something is sure to happen ' ; and she ran down to the tower to consult the youth .
` Go home , idol of my heart , and when night comes , pretend to scream out in your sleep , so that your father hears you .
Then tell him that you have dreamt that he was just being carried off by the Turks because he could not answer the question about the foals , when the lad whom he had shut up in the tower ran up and told them which was foaled in the morning , which at noon , and which in the evening . '
So the princess did exactly as the youth had bidden her ; and no sooner had she spoken than the king ordered the tower to be pulled down , and the prisoner brought before him . '
I did not think that you could have lived so long without food , ' said he , ` and as you have had plenty of time to repent your wicked conduct , I will grant you pardon , on condition that you help me in a sore strait .
Read this letter from the Sultan ; you will see that if I fail to answer his question about the foals , a dreadful war will be the result . '
The youth took the letter and read it through .
` Yes , I can help you , ' replied he ; ` but first you must bring me three troughs , all exactly alike .
Into one you must put oats , into another wheat , and into the third barley .
The foal which eats the oats is that which was foaled in the morning ; the foal which eats the wheat is that which was foaled at noon ; and the foal which eats the barley is that which was foaled at night . '
The king followed the youth's directions , and , marking the foals , sent them back to Turkey , and there was no war that year .
Now the Sultan was very angry that both his plots to get possession of Hungary had been such total failures , and he sent for his aunt , who was a witch , to consult her as to what he should do next .
` It is not the king who has answered your questions , ' observed the aunt , when he had told his story .
` He is far too stupid ever to have done that !
The person who has found out the puzzle is the son of a poor woman , who , if he lives , will become King of Hungary .
Therefore , if you want the crown yourself , you must get him here and kill him . '
After this conversation another letter was written to the Court of Hungary , saying that if the youth , now in the palace , was not sent to Turkey within three days , a large army would cross the border .
The king's heart was sorrowful as he read , for he was grateful to the lad for what he had done to help him ; but the boy only laughed , and bade the king fear nothing , but to search the town instantly for two youths just like each other , and he would paint himself a mask that was just like them .
And the sword at his side clanked loudly .
After a long search twin brothers were found , so exactly resembling each other that even their own mother could not tell the difference .
The youth painted a mask that was the precise copy of them , and when he had put it on , no one would have known one boy from the other .
They set out at once for the Sultan's palace , and when they reached it , they were taken straight into his presence .
He made a sign for them to come near ; they all bowed low in greeting .
He asked them about their journey ; they answered his questions all together , and in the same words .
If one sat down to supper , the others sat down at the same instant .
When one got up , the others got up too , as if there had been only one body between them .
The Sultan could not detect any difference between them , and he told his aunt that he would not be so cruel as to kill all three .
` Well , you will see a difference to-morrow , ' replied the witch , ` for one will have a cut on his sleeve .
That is the youth you must kill . '
And one hour before midnight , when witches are invisible , she glided into the room where all three lads were sleeping in the same bed .
She took out a pair of scissors and cut a small piece out of the boy's coat-sleeve which was hanging on the wall , and then crept silently from the room .
But in the morning the youth saw the slit , and he marked the sleeves of his two companions in the same way , and all three went down to breakfast with the Sultan .
The old witch was standing in the window and pretended not to see them ; but all witches have eyes in the backs of their heads , and she knew at once that not one sleeve but three were cut , and they were all as alike as before .
After breakfast , the Sultan , who was getting tired of the whole affair and wanted to be alone to invent some other plan , told them they might return home .
So , bowing low with one accord , they went .
The princess welcomed the boy back joyfully , but the poor youth was not allowed to rest long in peace , for one day a fresh letter arrived from the Sultan , saying that he had discovered that the young man was a very dangerous person , and that he must be sent to Turkey at once , and alone .
The girl burst into tears when the boy told her what was in the letter which her father had bade her to carry to him .
` Do not weep , love of my heart , ' said the boy , ` all will be well .
I will start at sunrise to-morrow . '
So next morning at sunrise the youth set forth , and in a few days he reached the Sultan's palace .
The old witch was waiting for him at the gate , and whispered as he passed : ` This is the last time you will ever enter it . '
But the sword clanked , and the lad did not even look at her .
As he crossed the threshold fifteen armed Turks barred his way , with the Sultan at their head .
Instantly the sword darted forth and cut off the heads of everyone but the Sultan , and then went quietly back to its scabbard .
The witch , who was looking on , saw that as long as the youth had possession of the sword , all her schemes would be in vain , and tried to steal the sword in the night , but it only jumped out of its scabbard and sliced off her nose , which was of iron .
And in the morning , when the Sultan brought a great army to capture the lad and deprive him of his sword , they were all cut to pieces , while he remained without a scratch .
Meanwhile the princess was in despair because the days slipped by , and the young man did not return , and she never rested until her father let her lead some troops against the Sultan .
She rode proudly before them , dressed in uniform ; but they had not left the town more than a mile behind them , when they met the lad and his little sword .
When he told them what he had done they shouted for joy , and carried him back in triumph to the palace ; and the king declared that as the youth had shown himself worthy to become his son-in-law , he should marry the princess and succeed to the throne at once , as he himself was getting old , and the cares of government were too much for him .
But the young man said he must first go and see his mother , and the king sent him in state , with a troop of soldiers as his bodyguard .
The old woman was quite frightened at seeing such an array draw up before her little house , and still more surprised when a handsome young man , whom she did not know , dismounted and kissed her hand , saying : ` Now , dear mother , you shall hear my secret at last !
I dreamed that I should become King of Hungary , and my dream has come true .
When I was a child , and you begged me to tell you , I had to keep silence , or the Magyar king would have killed me .
And if you had not beaten me nothing would have happened that has happened , and I should not now be King of Hungary . '
