On one of the great moors over in Jutland , where trees won't grow because the soil is so sandy and the wind so strong , there once lived a man and his wife , who had a little house and some sheep , and two sons who helped them to herd them .
The elder of the two was called Rasmus , and the younger Niels .
Rasmus was quite content to look after sheep , as his father had done before him , but Niels had a fancy to be a hunter , and was not happy till he got hold of a gun and learned to shoot .
It was only an old muzzle-loading flint-lock after all , but Niels thought it a great prize , and went about shooting at everything he could see .
So much did he practice that in the long run he became a wonderful shot , and was heard of even where he had never been seen .
Some people said there was very little in him beyond this , but that was an idea they found reason to change in the course of time .
The parents of Rasmus and Niels were good Catholics , and when they were getting old the mother took it into her head that she would like to go to Rome and see the Pope .
The others didn't see much use in this , but she had her way in the end : they sold all the sheep , shut up the house , and set out for Rome on foot .
Niels took his gun with him .
` What do you want with that ? '
said Rasmus ; ` we have plenty to carry without it . '
But Niels could not be happy without his gun , and took it all the same .
It was in the hottest part of summer that they began their journey , so hot that they could not travel at all in the middle of the day , and they were afraid to do it by night lest they might lose their way or fall into the hands of robbers .
One day , a little before sunset , they came to an inn which lay at the edge of a forest .
` We had better stay here for the night , ' said Rasmus .
` What an idea ! '
said Niels , who was growing impatient at the slow progress they were making .
` We can't travel by day for the heat , and we remain where we are all night .
It will be long enough before we get to Rome if we go on at this rate . '
Rasmus was unwilling to go on , but the two old people sided with Niels , who said , ` The nights aren't dark , and the moon will soon be up .
We can ask at the inn here , and find out which way we ought to take . '
So they held on for some time , but at last they came to a small opening in the forest , and here they found that the road split in two .
There was no sign-post to direct them , and the people in the inn had not told them which of the two roads to take .
` What's to be done now ? '
said Rasmus . '
I think we had better have stayed at the inn . '
` There's no harm done , ' said Niels .
` The night is warm , and we can wait here till morning .
One of us will keep watch till midnight , and then waken the other . '
Rasmus chose to take the first watch , and the others lay down to sleep .
It was very quiet in the forest , and Rasmus could hear the deer and foxes and other animals moving about among the rustling leaves .
After the moon rose he could see them occasionally , and when a big stag came quite close to him he got hold of Niels ' gun and shot it .
Niels was wakened by the report .
` What's that ? '
he said .
` I've just shot a stag , ' said Rasmus , highly pleased with himself .
` That's nothing , ' said Niels .
` I've often shot a sparrow , which is a much more difficult thing to do . '
It was now close on midnight , so Niels began his watch , and Rasmus went to sleep .
It began to get colder , and Niels began to walk about a little to keep himself warm .
He soon found that they were not far from the edge of the forest , and when he climbed up one of the trees there he could see out over the open country beyond .
At a little distance he saw a fire , and beside it there sat three giants , busy with broth and beef .
They were so huge that the spoons they used were as large as spades , and their forks as big as hay-forks : with these they lifted whole bucketfuls of broth and great joints of meat out of an enormous pot which was set on the ground between them .
Niels was startled and rather scared at first , but he comforted himself with the thought that the giants were a good way off , and that if they came nearer he could easily hide among the bushes .
After watching them for a little , however , he began to get over his alarm , and finally slid down the tree again , resolved to get his gun and play some tricks with them .
When he had climbed back to his former position , he took good aim , and waited till one of the giants was just in the act of putting a large piece of meat into his mouth .
Bang !
went Niels ' gun , and the bullet struck the handle of the fork so hard that the point went into the giant's chin , instead of his mouth .
` None of your tricks , ' growled the giant to the one who sat next him .
` What do you mean by hitting my fork like that , and making me prick myself ? ' '
I never touched your fork , ' said the other .
` Don't try to get up a quarrel with me . '
` Look at it , then , ' said the first .
` Do you suppose I stuck it into my own chin for fun ? '
The two got so angry over the matter that each offered to fight the other there and then , but the third giant acted as peace-maker , and they again fell to their eating .
While the quarrel was going on , Niels had loaded the gun again , and just as the second giant was about to put a nice tit-bit into his mouth , bang !
went the gun again , and the fork flew into a dozen pieces .
This giant was even more furious than the first had been , and words were just coming to blows , when the third giant again interposed .
` Don't be fools , ' he said to them ; ` what's the good of beginning to fight among ourselves , when it is so necessary for the three of us to work together and get the upper hand over the king of this country .
It will be a hard enough task as it is , but it will be altogether hopeless if we don't stick together .
Sit down again , and let us finish our meal ; I shall sit between you , and then neither of you can blame the other . '
Niels was too far away to hear their talk , but from their gestures he could guess what was happening , and thought it good fun .
` Thrice is lucky , ' said he to himself ; ` I'll have another shot yet . '
This time it was the third giant's fork that caught the bullet , and snapped in two .
` Well , ' said he , ` if I were as foolish as you two , I would also fly into a rage , but I begin to see what time of day it is , and I 'm going off this minute to see who it is that's playing these tricks with us . '
So well had the giant made his observations , that though Niels climbed down the tree as fast as he could , so as to hide among the bushes , he had just got to the ground when the enemy was upon him .
` Stay where you are , ' said the giant , ` or I'll put my foot on you , and there won't be much of you left after that . '
Niels gave in , and the giant carried him back to his comrades .
` You don't deserve any mercy at our hands , ' said his captor ` but as you are such a good shot you may be of great use to us , so we shall spare your life , if you will do us a service .
Not far from here there stands a castle , in which the king's daughter lives ; we are at war with the king , and want to get the upper hand of him by carrying off the princess , but the castle is so well guarded that there is no getting into it .
By our skill in magic we have cast sleep on every living thing in the castle , except a little black dog , and , as long as he is awake , we are no better off than before ; for , as soon as we begin to climb over the wall , the little dog will hear us , and its barking will waken all the others again .
Having got you , we can place you where you will be able to shoot the dog before it begins to bark , and then no one can hinder us from getting the princess into our hands .
If you do that , we shall not only let you off , but reward you handsomely . '
Niels had to consent , and the giants set out for the castle at once .
It was surrounded by a very high rampart , so high that even the giants could not touch the top of it .
` How am I to get over that ? '
said Niels .
` Quite easily , ' said the third giant ; ` I'll throw you up on it . '
` No , thanks , ' said Niels . '
I might fall down on the other side , or break my leg or neck , and then the little dog wouldn't get shot after all . '
` No fear of that , ' said the giant ; ` the rampart is quite wide on the top , and covered with long grass , so that you will come down as softly as though you fell on a feather-bed . '
Niels had to believe him , and allowed the giant to throw him up .
He came down on his feet quite unhurt , but the little black dog heard the dump , and rushed out of its kennel at once .
It was just opening its mouth to bark , when Niels fired , and it fell dead on the spot .
` Go down on the inside now , ' said the giant , ` and see if you can open the gate to us . '
Niels made his way down into the courtyard , but on his way to the outer gate he found himself at the entrance to the large hall of the castle .
The door was open , and the hall was brilliantly lighted , though there was no one to be seen .
Niels went in here and looked round him : on the wall there hung a huge sword without a sheath , and beneath it was a large drinking-horn , mounted with silver .
Niels went closer to look at these , and saw that the horn had letters engraved on the silver rim : when he took it down and turned it round , he found that the inscription was : -- Whoever drinks the wine I hold Can wield the sword that hangs above ; Then let him use it for the right , And win a royal maiden's love .
Niels took out the silver stopper of the horn , and drank some of the wine , but when he tried to take down the sword he found himself unable to move it .
So he hung up the horn again , and went further in to the castle .
` The giants can wait a little , ' he said .
Before long he came to an apartment in which a beautiful princess lay asleep in a bed , and on a table by her side there lay a gold-hemmed handkerchief .
Niels tore this in two , and put one half in his pocket , leaving the other half on the table .
On the floor he saw a pair of gold-embroidered slippers , and one of these he also put in his pocket .
After that he went back to the hall , and took down the horn again .
` Perhaps I have to drink all that is in it before I can move the sword , ' he thought ; so he put it to his lips again and drank till it was quite empty .
When he had done this , he could wield the sword with the greatest of ease , and felt himself strong enough to do anything , even to fight the giants he had left outside , who were no doubt wondering why he had not opened the gate to them before this time .
To kill the giants , he thought , would be using the sword for the right ; but as to winning the love of the princess , that was a thing which the son of a poor sheep-farmer need not hope for .
When Niels came to the gate of the castle , he found that there was a large door and a small one , so he opened the latter .
` Can't you open the big door ? '
said the giants ; ` we shall hardly be able to get in at this one . '
` The bars are too heavy for me to draw , ' said Niels ; ` if you stoop a little you can quite well come in here . '
The first giant accordingly bent down and entered in a stooping posture , but before he had time to straighten his back again Niels made a sweep with the sword , and oft went the giant's head .
To push the body aside as it fell was quite easy for Niels , so strong had the wine made him , and the second giant as he entered met the same reception .
The third was slower in coming , so Niels called out to him : ` Be quick , ' he said , ` you are surely the oldest of the three , since you are so slow in your movements , but I can't wait here long ; I must get back to my own people as soon as possible . '
So the third also came in , and was served in the same way .
It appears from the story that giants were not given fair play !
By this time day was beginning to break , and Niels thought that his folks might already be searching for him , so , instead of waiting to see what took place at the castle , he ran off to the forest as fast as he could , taking the sword with him .
He found the others still asleep , so he woke them up , and they again set out on their journey .
Of the night's adventures he said not a word , and when they asked where he got the sword , he only pointed in the direction of the castle , and said , ` Over that way . '
They thought he had found it , and asked no more questions .
When Niels left the castle , he shut the door behind him , and it closed with such a bang that the porter woke up .
He could scarcely believe his eyes when he saw the three headless giants lying in a heap in the courtyard , and could not imagine what had taken place .
The whole castle was soon aroused , and then everybody wondered at the affair : it was soon seen that the bodies were those of the king's great enemies , but how they came to be there and in that condition was a perfect mystery .
Then it was noticed that the drinking-horn was empty and the sword gone , while the princess reported that half of her handkerchief and one of her slippers had been taken away .
How the giants had been killed seemed a little clearer now , but who had done it was as great a puzzle as before .
The old knight who had charge of the castle said that in his opinion it must have been some young knight , who had immediately set off to the king to claim the hand of the princess .
This sounded likely , but the messenger who was sent to the Court returned with the news that no one there knew anything about the matter .
` We must find him , however , ' said the princess ; ` for if he is willing to marry me I can not in honour refuse him , after what my father put on the horn . '
She took council with her father's wisest men as to what ought to be done , and among other things they advised her to build a house beside the highway , and put over the door this inscription : -- ` Whoever will tell the story of his life , may stay here three nights for nothing . '
This was done , and many strange tales were told to the princess , but none of the travellers said a word about the three giants .
In the meantime Niels and the others tramped on towards Rome .
Autumn passed , and winter was just beginning when they came to the foot of a great range of mountains , towering up to the sky .
` Must we go over these ? '
said they .
` We shall be frozen to death or buried in the snow . '
` Here comes a man , ' said Niels ; ` let us ask him the way to Rome . '
They did so , and were told that there was no other way .
` And is it far yet ? '
said the old people , who were beginning to be worn out by the long journey .
The man held up his foot so that they could see the sole of his shoe ; it was worn as thin as paper , and there was a hole in the middle of it .
` These shoes were quite new when I left Rome , ' he said , ` and look at them now ; that will tell you whether you are far from it or not . '
This discouraged the old people so much that they gave up all thought of finishing the journey , and only wished to get back to Denmark as quickly as they could .
What with the winter and bad roads they took longer to return than they had taken to go , but in the end they found themselves in sight of the forest where they had slept before .
` What's this ? '
said Rasmus .
` Here's a big house built since we passed this way before . '
` So it is , ' said Peter ; ` let's stay all night in it . '
` No , we can't afford that , ' said the old people ; ` it will be too dear for the like of us . '
However , when they saw what was written above the door , they were all well pleased to get a night's lodging for nothing .
They were well received , and had so much attention given to them , that the old people were quite put out by it .
After they had got time to rest themselves , the princess's steward came to hear their story .
` You saw what was written above the door , ' he said to the father .
` Tell me who you are and what your history has been . '
` Dear me , I have nothing of any importance to tell you , ' said the old man , ` and I am sure we should never have made so bold as to trouble you at all if it hadn't been for the youngest of our two sons here . '
` Never mind that , ' said the steward ; ` you are very welcome if you will only tell me the story of your life . '
` Well , well , I will , ' said he , ` but there is nothing to tell about it .
I and my wife have lived all our days on a moor in North Jutland , until this last year , when she took a fancy to go to Rome .
We set out with our two sons but turned back long before we got there , and are now on our way home again .
That's all my own story , and our two sons have lived with us all their days , so there is nothing more to be told about them either . '
` Yes there is , ' said Rasmus ; ` when we were on our way south , we slept in the wood near here one night , and I shot a stag . '
The steward was so much accustomed to hearing stories of no importance that he thought there was no use going further with this , but reported to the princess that the newcomers had nothing to tell .
` Did you question them all ? '
she said .
` Well , no ; not directly , ' said he ; ` but the father said that none of them could tell me any more than he had done . '
` You are getting careless , ' said the princess ; ' I shall go and talk to them myself . '
Niels knew the princess again as soon as she entered the room , and was greatly alarmed , for he immediately supposed that all this was a device to discover the person who had run away with the sword , the slipper and the half of the handkerchief , and that it would fare badly with him if he were discovered .
So he told his story much the same as the others did , Niels was not very particular , and thought he had escaped all further trouble , when Rasmus put in his word .
` You've forgotten something , Niels , ' he said ; ` you remember you found a sword near here that night I shot the stag . '
` Where is the sword ? '
said the princess . '
I know , ' said the steward , ' I saw where he laid it down when they came in ; ' and off he went to fetch it , while Niels wondered whether he could make his escape in the meantime .
Before he had made up his mind , however , the steward was back with the sword , which the princess recognised at once .
` Where did you get this ? '
she said to Niels .
Niels was silent , and wondered what the usual penalty was for a poor sheep-farmer's son who was so unfortunate as to deliver a princess and carry off things from her bed-room .
` See what else he has about him , ' said the princess to the steward , and Niels had to submit to be searched : out of one pocket came a gold-embroidered slipper , and out of another the half of a gold-hemmed handkerchief .
` That is enough , ' said the princess ; ` now we needn't ask any more questions .
Send for my father the king at once . '
` Please let me go , ' said Niels ; ' I did you as much good as harm , at any rate . '
` Why , who said anything about doing harm ? '
said the princess .
` You must stay here till my father comes . '
The way in which the princess smiled when she said this gave Niels some hope that things might not be bad for him after all , and he was yet more encouraged when he thought of the words engraver on the horn , though the last line still seemed too good to be true .
However , the arrival of the king soon settled the matter : the princess was willing and so was Niels , and in a few days the wedding bells were ringing .
Niels was made an earl by that time , and looked as handsome as any of them when dressed in all his robes .
Before long the old king died , and Niels reigned after him ; but whether his father and mother stayed with him , or went back to the moor in Jutland , or were sent to Rome in a carriage and four , is something that all the historians of his reign have forgotten to mention .
Shepherd Paul Once upon a time a shepherd was taking his flock out to pasture , when he found a little baby lying in a meadow , left there by some wicked person , who thought it was too much trouble to look after it .
The shepherd was fond of children , so he took the baby home with him and gave it plenty of milk , and by the time the boy was fourteen he could tear up oaks as if they were weeds .
Then Paul , as the shepherd had called him , grew tired of living at home , and went out into the world to try his luck .
He walked on for many miles , seeing nothing that surprised him , but in an open space of the wood he was astonished at finding a man combing trees as another man would comb flax .
` Good morning , friend , ' said Paul ; ` upon my word , you must be a strong man ! '
The man stopped his work and laughed . '
I am Tree Comber , ' he answered proudly ; ` and the greatest wish of my life is to wrestle with Shepherd Paul . '
` May all your wishes be fulfilled as easily , for I am Shepherd Paul , and can wrestle with you at once , ' replied the lad ; and he seized Tree Comber and flung him with such force to the ground that he sank up to his knees in the earth .
However , in a moment he was up again , and catching hold of Paul , threw him so that he sank up to his waist ; but then it was Paul's turn again , and this time the man was buried up to his neck .
` That is enough , ' cried he ; ' I see you are a smart fellow , let us become friends . '
` Very good , ' answered Paul , and they continued their journey together .
By-and-by they reached a man who was grinding stones to powder in his hands , as if they had been nuts .
` Good morning , ' said Paul politely ; ` upon my word , you must be a strong fellow ! ' '
I am Stone Crusher , ' answered the man , and the greatest wish of my life is to wrestle with Shepherd Paul . '
` May all your wishes be as easily fulfilled , for I am Shepherd Paul , and will wrestle with you at once , ' and the sport began .
After a short time the man declared himself beaten , and begged leave to go with them ; so they all three travelled together .
A little further on they came upon a man who was kneading iron as if it had been dough .
` Good morning , ' said Paul , ` you must be a strong fellow . ' '
I am Iron Kneader , and should like to fight Shepherd Paul , ' answered he .
` Let us begin at once then , ' replied Paul ; and on this occasion also , Paul got the better of his foe , and they all four continued their journey .
At midday they entered a forest , and Paul stopped suddenly .
` We three will go and look for game , ' he said , ` and you , Tree Comber , will stay behind and prepare a good supper for us . '
So Tree Comber set to work to boil and roast , and when dinner was nearly ready , a little dwarf with a pointed beard strolled up to the place .
` What are you cooking ? '
asked he , ` give me some of it . '
` I'll give you some on your back , if you like , ' answered Tree Comber rudely .
The dwarf took no notice , but waited patiently till the dinner was cooked , then suddenly throwing Tree Comber on the ground , he ate up the contents of the saucepan and vanished .
Tree Comber felt rather ashamed of himself , and set about boiling some more vegetables , but they were still very hard when the hunters returned , and though they complained of his bad cooking , he did not tell them about the dwarf .
Next day Stone Crusher was left behind , and after him Iron Kneader , and each time the dwarf appeared , and they fared no better than Tree Comber had done .
The fourth day Paul said to them : ` My friends , there must be some reason why your cooking has always been so bad , now you shall go and hunt and I will stay behind . '
So they went off , amusing themselves by thinking what was in store for Paul .
He set to work at once , and had just got all his vegetables simmering in the pot when the dwarf appeared as before , and asked to have some of the stew .
` Be off , ' cried Paul , snatching up the saucepan as he spoke .
The dwarf tried to get hold of his collar , but Paul seized him by the beard , and tied him to a big tree so that he could not stir , and went on quietly with his cooking .
The hunters came back early , longing to see how Paul had got on , and , to their surprise , dinner was quite ready for them .
` You are great useless creatures , ' said he , ` who couldn't even outwit that little dwarf .
When we have finished supper I will show you what I have done with him ! '
But when they reached the place where Paul had left the dwarf , neither he nor the tree was to be seen , for the little fellow had pulled it up by the roots and run away , dragging it after him .
The four friends followed the track of the tree and found that it ended in a deep hole .
` He must have gone down here , ' said Paul , ` and I will go after him .
See !
there is a basket that will do for me to sit in , and a cord to lower me with .
But when I pull the cord again , lose no time in drawing the basket up . '
And he stepped into the basket , which was lowered by his friends .
At last it touched the ground and he jumped out and looked about him .
He was in a beautiful valley , full of meadows and streams , with a splendid castle standing by .
As the door was open he walked in , but a lovely maiden met him and implored him to go back , for the owner of the castle was a dragon with six heads , who had stolen her from her home and brought her down to this underground spot .
But Paul refused to listen to all her entreaties , and declared that he was not afraid of the dragon , and did not care how many heads he had ; and he sat down calmly to wait for him .
In a little while the dragon came in , and all the long teeth in his six heads chattered with anger at the sight of the stranger . '
I am Shepherd Paul , ' said the young man , ` and I have come to fight you , and as I am in a hurry we had better begin at once . '
` Very good , ' answered the dragon . '
I am sure of my supper , but let us have a mouthful of something first , just to give us an appetite . '
Whereupon he began to eat some huge boulders as if they had been cakes , and when he had quite finished , he offered Paul one .
Paul was not fond of boulders , but he took a wooden knife and cut one in two , then he snatched up both halves in his hands and threw them with all his strength at the dragon , so that two out of the six heads were smashed in .
At this the dragon , with a mighty roar , rushed upon Paul , but he sprang on one side , and with a swinging blow cut off two of the other heads .
Then , seizing the monster by the neck , he dashed the remaining heads against the rock .
When the maiden heard that the dragon was dead , she thanked her deliverer with tears in her eyes , but told him that her two younger sisters were in the power of dragons still fiercer and more horrible than this one .
He vowed that his sword should never rest in its sheath till they were set free , and bade the girl come with him , and show him the way .
The maiden gladly consented to go with him , but first she gave him a golden rod , and bade him strike the castle with it .
He did so , and it instantly changed into a golden apple , which he put in his pocket .
After that , they started on their search .
They had not gone far before they reached the castle where the second girl was confined by the power of the dragon with twelve heads , who had stolen her from her home .
She was overjoyed at the sight of her sister and of Paul , and brought him a shirt belonging to the dragon , which made every one who wore it twice as strong as they were before .
Scarcely had he put it on when the dragon came back , and the fight began .
Long and hard was the struggle , but Paul's sword and his shirt helped him , and the twelve heads lay dead upon the ground .
Then Paul changed the castle into an apple , which he put into his pocket , and set out with the two girls in search of the third castle .
It was not long before they found it , and within the walls was the third sister , who was younger and prettier than either of the other two .
Her husband had eighteen heads , but when he quitted the lower regions for the surface of the earth , he left them all at home except one , which he changed for the head of a little dwarf , with a pointed beard .
The moment that Paul knew that this terrible dragon was no other than the dwarf whom he had tied to the tree , he longed more than ever to fly at his throat .
But the thought of the eighteen heads warned him to be careful , and the third sister brought him a silk shirt which would make him ten times stronger than he was before .
He had scarcely put it on , when the whole castle began to shake violently , and the dragon flew up the steps into the hall .
` Well , my friend , so we meet once more !
Have you forgotten me ?
I am Shepherd Paul , and I have come to wrestle with you , and to free your wife from your clutches . '
` Ah , I am glad to see you again , ' said the dragon .
` Those were my two brothers whom you killed , and now your blood shall pay for them . '
And he went into his room to look for his shirt and to drink some magic wine , but the shirt was on Paul's back , and as for the wine , the girl had given a cupful to Paul and then had allowed the rest to run out of the cask .
At this the dragon grew rather frightened , but in a moment had recollected his eighteen heads , and was bold again .
` Come on , ' he cried , rearing himself up and preparing to dart all his heads at once at Paul .
But Paul jumped underneath , and gave an upward cut so that six of the heads went rolling down .
They were the best heads too , and very soon the other twelve lay beside them .
Then Paul changed the castle into an apple , and put it in his pocket .
Afterwards he and the three girls set off for the opening which led upwards to the earth .
The basket was still there , dangling from the rope , but it was only big enough to hold the three girls , so Paul sent them up , and told them to be sure and let down the basket for him .
Unluckily , at the sight of the maidens ' beauty , so far beyond anything they had ever seen , the friends forgot all about Paul , and carried the girls straight away into a far country , so that they were not much better off than before .
Meanwhile Paul , mad with rage at the ingratitude of the three sisters , vowed he would be revenged upon them , and set about finding some way of getting back to earth .
But it was not very easy , and for months , and months , and months , he wandered about underground , and , at the end , seemed no nearer to fulfilling his purpose than he was at the beginning .
At length , one day , he happened to pass the nest of a huge griffin , who had left her young ones all alone .
Just as Paul came along a cloud containing fire instead of rain burst overhead , and all the little griffins would certainly have been killed had not Paul spread his cloak over the nest and saved them .
When their father returned the young ones told him what Paul had done , and he lost no time in flying after Paul , and asking how he could reward him for his goodness .
` By carrying me up to the earth , ' answered Paul ; and the griffin agreed , but first went to get some food to eat on the way , as it was a long journey .
` Now get on my back , ' he said to Paul , ` and when I turn my head to the right , cut a slice off the bullock that hangs on that side , and put it in my mouth , and when I turn my head to the left , draw a cupful of wine from the cask that hangs on that side , and pour it down my throat . '
For three days and three nights Paul and the griffin flew upwards , and on the fourth morning it touched the ground just outside the city where Paul's friends had gone to live .
Then Paul thanked him and bade him farewell , and he returned home again .
At first Paul was too tired to do anything but sleep , but as soon as he was rested he started off in search of the three faithless ones , who almost died from fright at the sight of him , for they had thought he would never come back to reproach them for their wickedness .
` You know what to expect , ' Paul said to them quietly .
` You shall never see me again .
Off with you ! '
He next took the three apples out of his pocket and placed them all in the prettiest places he could find ; after which he tapped them with his golden rod , and they became castles again .
He gave two of the castles to the eldest sisters , and kept the other for himself and the youngest , whom he married , and there they are living still .
