`` For a woman of forty , Mary Isabel , you have the least sense of any person I have ever known , '' said Louisa Irving .
Louisa had said something similar in spirit to Mary Isabel almost every day of her life .
Mary Isabel had never resented it , even when it hurt her bitterly .
Everybody in Latimer knew that Louisa Irving ruled her meek little sister with a rod of iron and wondered why Mary Isabel never rebelled .
It simply never occurred to Mary Isabel to do so ; all her life she had given in to Louisa and the thought of refusing obedience to her sister's Mede-and-Persian decrees never crossed her mind .
Mary Isabel had only one secret from Louisa and she lived in daily dread that Louisa would discover it .
It was a very harmless little secret , but Mary Isabel felt rightly sure that Louisa would not tolerate it for a moment .
They were sitting together in the dim living room of their quaint old cottage down by the shore .
The window was open and the sea-breeze blew in , stirring the prim white curtains fitfully , and ruffling the little rings of dark hair on Mary Isabel's forehead -- rings which always annoyed Louisa .
She thought Mary Isabel ought to brush them straight back , and Mary Isabel did so faithfully a dozen times a day ; and in ten minutes they crept down again , kinking defiance to Louisa , who might make Mary Isabel submit to her in all things but had no power over naturally curly hair .
Louisa had never had any trouble with her own hair ; it was straight and sleek and mouse-coloured -- what there was of it .
Mary Isabel's face was flushed and her wood-brown eyes looked grieved and pleading .
Mary Isabel was still pretty , and vanity is the last thing to desert a properly constructed woman .
`` I can't wear a bonnet yet , Louisa , '' she protested .
`` Bonnets have gone out for everybody except really old ladies .
I want a hat : one of those pretty , floppy ones with pale blue forget-me-nots . ''
Then it was that Louisa made the remark quoted above .
`` I wore a bonnet before I was forty , '' she went on ruthlessly , `` and so should every decent woman .
It is absurd to be thinking so much of dress at your age , Mary Isabel .
I don't know what sort of a way you 'd bedizen yourself out if I 'd let you , I 'm sure .
It's fortunate you have somebody to keep you from making a fool of yourself .
I 'm going to town tomorrow and I'll pick you out a suitable black bonnet .
You 'd look nice starring round in leghorn and forget-me-nots , now , wouldn't you ? ''
Mary Isabel privately thought she would , but she gave in , of course , although she did hate bitterly that unbought , unescapable bonnet .
`` Well , do as you think best , Louisa , '' she said with a sigh .
`` I suppose it doesn't matter much .
Nobody cares how I look anyhow .
But can't I go to town with you ?
I want to pick out my new silk . ''
`` I 'm as good a judge of black silk as you , '' said Louisa shortly .
`` It isn't safe to leave the house alone . ''
`` But I don't want a black silk , '' cried Mary Isabel .
`` I've worn black so long ; both my silk dresses have been black .
I want a pretty silver-grey , something like Mrs. Chester Ford's . ''
`` Did anyone ever hear such nonsense ? ''
Louisa wanted to know , in genuine amazement .
`` Silver-grey silk is the most unserviceable thing in the world .
There's nothing like black for wear and real elegance .
No , no , Mary Isabel , don't be foolish .
You must let me choose for you ; you know you never had any judgment .
Mother told you so often enough .
Now , get your sunbonnet and take a walk to the shore .
You look tired .
I'll get the tea . ''
Louisa's tone was kind though firm .
She Was really good to Mary Isabel as long as Mary Isabel gave her her own way peaceably .
But if she had known Mary Isabel's secret she would never have permitted those walks to the shore .
Mary Isabel sighed again , yielded , and went out .
Across a green field from the Irving cottage Dr. Donald Hamilton's big house was hooding itself in the shadows of the thick fir grove that enabled the doctor to have a garden .
There was no shelter at the cottage , so the Irving `` girls '' never tried to have a garden .
Soon after Dr. Hamilton had come there to live he had sent a bouquet of early daffodils over by his housekeeper .
Louisa had taken them gingerly in her extreme fingertips , carried them across the field to the lawn fence , and cast them over it , under the amused grey eyes of portly Dr. Hamilton , who was looking out of his office window .
Then Louisa had come back to the porch door and ostentatiously washed her hands .
`` I guess that will settle Donald Hamilton , '' she told the secretly sorry Mary Isabel triumphantly , and it did settle him -- at least as far as any farther social advances were concerned .
Dr. Hamilton was an excellent physician and an equally excellent man .
Louisa Irving could not have picked a flaw in his history or character .
Indeed , against Dr. Hamilton himself she had no grudge , but he was the brother of a man she hated and whose relatives were consequently taboo in Louisa's eyes .
Not that the brother was a bad man either ; he had simply taken the opposite side to the Irvings in a notable church feud of a dozen years ago , and Louisa had never since held any intercourse with him or his fellow sinners .
Mary Isabel did not look at the Hamilton house .
She kept her head resolutely turned away as she went down the shore lane with its wild sweet loneliness of salt-withered grasses and piping sea-winds .
Only when she turned the corner of the fir-wood , which shut her out from view of the houses , did she look timidly over the line-fence .
Dr. Hamilton was standing there , where the fence ran out to the sandy shingle , smoking his little black pipe , which he took out and put away when Mary Isabel came around the firs .
Men did things like that instinctively in Mary Isabel's company .
There was something so delicately virginal about her , in spite of her forty years , that they gave her the reverence they would have paid to a very young , pure girl .
Dr. Hamilton smiled at the little troubled face under the big sunbonnet .
Mary Isabel had to wear a sunbonnet .
She would never have done it from choice .
`` What is the matter ? ''
asked the doctor , in his big , breezy , old-bachelor voice .
He had another voice for sick-beds and rooms of bereavement , but this one suited best with the purring of the waves and winds .
`` How do you know that anything is the matter ? ''
Mary Isabel parried demurely .
`` By your face .
Come now , tell me what it is . ''
`` It is really nothing .
I have just been foolish , that is all .
I wanted a hat with forget-me-nots and a grey silk , and Louisa says I must have black and a bonnet . ''
The doctor looked indignant but held his peace .
He and Mary Isabel had tacitly agreed never to discuss Louisa , because such discussion would not make for harmony .
Mary Isabel's conscience would not let the doctor say anything uncomplimentary of Louisa , and the doctor's conscience would not let him say anything complimentary .
So they left her out of the question and talked about the sea and the boats and poetry and flowers and similar non-combustible subjects .
* * * * * These clandestine meetings had been going on for two months , ever since the day they had just happened to meet below the firs .
It never occurred to Mary Isabel that the doctor meant anything but friendship ; and if it had occurred to the doctor , he did not think there would be much use in saying so .
Mary Isabel was too hopelessly under Louisa's thumb .
She might keep tryst below the firs occasionally -- so long as Louisa didn't know -- but to no farther lengths would she dare go .
Besides , the doctor wasn't quite sure that he really wanted anything more .
Mary Isabel was a sweet little woman , but Dr. Hamilton had been a bachelor so long that it would be very difficult for him to get out of the habit ; so difficult that it was hardly worth while trying when such an obstacle as Louisa Irving's tyranny loomed in the way .
So he never tried to make love to Mary Isabel , though he probably would have if he had thought it of any use .
This does not sound very romantic , of course , but when a man is fifty , romance , while it may be present in the fruit , is assuredly absent in blossom .
`` I suppose you won't be going to the induction of my nephew Thursday week ? ''
said the doctor in the course of the conversation .
`` No .
Louisa will not permit it .
I had hoped , '' said Mary Isabel with a sigh , as she braided some silvery shore-grasses nervously together , `` that when old Mr. Moody went away she would go back to the church here .
And I think she would if -- if -- '' `` If Jim hadn't come in Mr. Moody's place , '' finished the doctor with his jolly laugh .
Mary Isabel coloured prettily .
`` It is not because he is your nephew , doctor .
It is because -- because -- '' `` Because he is the nephew of my brother who was on the other side in that ancient church fracas ?
Bless you , I understand .
What a good hater your sister is !
Such a tenacity in holding bitterness from one generation to another commands admiration of a certain sort .
As for Jim , he's a nice little chap , and he is coming to live with me until the manse is repaired . ''
`` I am sure you will find that pleasant , '' said Mary Isabel primly .
She wondered if the young minister's advent would make any difference in regard to these shore-meetings ; then decided quickly that it would not ; then more quickly still that it wouldn't matter if it did .
`` He will be company , '' admitted the doctor , who liked company and found the shore road rather lonesome .
`` I had a letter from him today saying that he 'd come home with me from the induction .
By the way , they 're tearing down the old post office today .
And that reminds me -- by Jove , I 'd all but forgotten .
I promised to go up and see Mollie Marr this evening ; Mollie's nerves are on the rampage again .
I must rush . ''
With a wave of his hand the doctor hurried off .
Mary Isabel lingered for some time longer , leaning against the fence , looking dreamily out to sea .
The doctor was a very pleasant companion .
If only Louisa would allow neighbourliness !
Mary Isabel felt a faint , impotent resentment .
She had never had anything other girls had : friends , dresses , beaus , and it was all Louisa's fault -- Louisa who was going to make her wear a bonnet for the rest of her life .
The more Mary Isabel thought of that bonnet the more she hated it .
That evening Warren Marr rode down to the shore cottage on horseback and handed Mary Isabel a letter ; a strange , scrumpled , soiled , yellow letter .
When Mary Isabel saw the handwriting on the envelope she trembled and turned as deadly pale as if she had seen a ghost : `` Here's a letter for you , '' said Warren , grinning .
`` It's been a long time on the way -- nigh fifteen years .
Guess the news'll be rather stale .
We found it behind the old partition when we tore it down today . ''
`` It is my brother Tom's writing , '' said Mary Isabel faintly .
She went into the room trembling , holding the letter tightly in her clasped hands .
Louisa had gone up to the village on an errand ; Mary Isabel almost wished she were home ; she hardly felt equal to the task of opening Tom's letter alone .
Tom had been dead for ten years and this letter gave her an uncanny sensation ; as of a message from the spirit-land .
Fifteen years , ago Thomas Irving had gone to California and five years later he had died there .
Mary Isabel , who had idolized her brother , almost grieved herself to death at the time .
Finally she opened the letter with ice-cold fingers .
It had been written soon after Tom reached California .
The first two pages were filled with descriptions of the country and his `` job . ''
On the third Tom began abruptly : Look here , Mary Isabel , you are not to let Louisa boss you about as she was doing when I was at home .
I was going to speak to you about it before I came away , but I forgot .
Lou is a fine girl , but she is too domineering , and the more you give in to her the worse it makes her .
You 're far too easy-going for your own welfare , Mary Isabel , and for your own sake I Wish you had more spunk .
Don't let Louisa live your life for you ; just you live it yourself .
Never mind if there is some friction at first ; Lou will give in when she finds she has to , and you'll both be the better for it , I want you to be real happy , Mary Isabel , but you won't be if you don't assert your independence .
Giving in the way you do is bad for both you and Louisa .
It will make her a tyrant and you a poor-spirited creature of no account in the world .
Just brace up and stand firm .
When she had read the letter through Mary Isabel took it to her own room and locked it in her bureau drawer .
Then she sat by her window , looking out into a sea-sunset , and thought it over .
Coming in the strange way it had , the letter seemed a message from the dead , and Mary Isabel had a superstitious conviction that she must obey it .
She had always had a great respect for Tom's opinion .
He was right -- oh , she felt that he was right .
What a pity she had not received the letter long ago , before the shackles of habit had become so firmly riveted .
But it was not too late yet .
She would rebel at last and -- how had Tom phrased it -- oh , yes , assert her independence .
She owed it to Tom ; It had been his wish -- and he was dead -- and she would do her best to fulfil it .
`` I shan't get a bonnet , '' thought Mary Isabel determinedly .
`` Tom wouldn't have liked me in a bonnet .
From this out I 'm just going to do exactly as Tom would have liked me to do , no matter how afraid I am of Louisa .
And , oh , I am horribly afraid of her . ''
Mary Isabel was every whit as much afraid the next morning after breakfast but she did not look it , by reason of the flush on her cheeks and the glint in her brown eyes .
She had put Tom's letter in the bosom of her dress and she pressed her fingertips on it that the crackle might give her courage .
`` Louisa , '' she said firmly , `` I am going to town with you . ''
`` Nonsense , '' said Louisa shortly .
`` You may call it nonsense if you like , but I am going , '' said Mary Isabel unquailingly .
`` I have made up my mind on that point , Louisa , and nothing you can say will alter it . ''
Louisa looked amazed .
Never before had Mary Isabel set her decrees at naught .
`` Are you crazy , Mary Isabel ? ''
she demanded .
`` No , I am not crazy .
But I am going to town and I am going to get a silver-grey silk for myself and a new hat .
I will not wear a bonnet and you need never mention it to me again , Louisa . ''
`` If you are going to town I shall stay home , '' said Louisa in a cold , ominous tone that almost made Mary Isabel quake .
If it had not been for that reassuring crackle of Tom's letter I fear Mary Isabel would have given in .
`` This house can't be left alone .
If you go , I'll stay . ''
Louisa honestly thought that would bring the rebel to terms .
Mary Isabel had never gone to town alone in her life .
Louisa did not believe she would dare to go .
But Mary Isabel did not quail .
Defiance was not so hard after all , once you had begun .
Mary Isabel went to town and she went alone .
She spent the whole delightful day in the shops , unhampered by Louisa's scorn and criticism in her examination of all the pretty things displayed .
She selected a hat she felt sure Tom would like -- a pretty crumpled grey straw with forget-me-nots and ribbons .
Then she bought a grey silk of a lovely silvery shade .
When she got back home she unwrapped her packages and showed her purchases to Louisa .
But Louisa neither looked at them nor spoke to Mary Isabel .
Mary Isabel tossed her head and went to her own room .
Her draught of freedom had stimulated her , and she did not mind Louisa's attitude half as much as she would have expected .
She read Tom's letter over again to fortify herself and then she dressed her hair in a fashion she had seen that day in town and pulled out all the little curls on her forehead .
The next day she took the silver-grey silk to the Latimer dressmaker and picked out a fashionable design for it .
When the silk dress came home , Louisa , who had thawed out somewhat in the meantime , unbent sufficiently to remark that it fitted very well .
`` I am going to wear it to the induction tomorrow , '' Mary Isabel said , boldly to all appearances , quakingly in reality .
She knew that she was throwing down the gauntlet for good and all .
If she could assert and maintain her independence in this matter Louisa's power would be broken forever .
* * * * * Twelve years before this , the previously mentioned schism had broken out in the Latimer church .
The minister had sided with the faction which Louisa Irving opposed .
She had promptly ceased going to his church and withdrew all financial support .
She paid to the Marwood church , fifteen miles away , and occasionally she hired a team and drove over there to service .
But she never entered the Latimer church again nor allowed Mary Isabel to do so .
For that matter , Mary Isabel did not wish to go .
She had resented the minister's attitude almost as bitterly as Louisa .
But when Mr. Moody accepted a call elsewhere Mary Isabel hoped that she and Louisa might return to their old church home .
Possibly they might have done so had not the congregation called the young , newly fledged James Anderson .
Mary Isabel would not have cared for this , but Louisa sternly said that neither she nor any of hers should ever darken the doors of a church where the nephew of Martin Hamilton preached .
Mary Isabel had regretfully acquiesced at the time , but now she had made up her mind to go to church and she meant to begin with the induction service .
Louisa stared at her sister incredulously .
`` Have you taken complete leave of your senses , Mary Isabel ? ''
`` No .
I've just come to them , '' retorted Mary Isabel recklessly , gripping a chair-back desperately so that Louisa should not see how she was trembling .
`` It is all foolishness to keep away from church just because of an old grudge .
I 'm tired of staying home Sundays or driving fifteen miles to Marwood to hear poor old Mr. Grattan .
Everybody says Mr. Anderson is a splendid young man and an excellent preacher , and I 'm going to attend his services regularly . ''
Louisa had taken Mary Isabel's first defiance in icy disdain .
Now she lost her temper and raged .
The storm of angry words beat on Mary Isabel like hail , but she fronted it staunchly .
She seemed to hear Tom's voice saying , `` Live your own life , Mary Isabel ; don't let Louisa live it for you , '' and she meant to obey him .
`` If you go to that man's induction I'll never forgive you , '' Louisa concluded .
Mary Isabel said nothing .
She just primmed up her lips very determinedly , picked up the silk dress , and carried it to her room .
The next day was fine and warm .
Louisa said no word all the morning .
She worked fiercely and slammed things around noisily .
After dinner Mary Isabel went to her room and came down presently , fine and dainty in her grey silk , with the forget-me-not hat resting on the soft loose waves of her hair .
Louisa was blacking the kitchen stove .
She shot one angry glance at Mary Isabel , then gave a short , contemptuous laugh , the laugh of an angry woman who finds herself robbed of all weapons except ridicule .
Mary Isabel flushed and walked with an unfaltering step out of the house and up the lane .
She resented Louisa's laughter .
She was sure there was nothing so very ridiculous about her appearance .
Women far older than she , even in Latimer , wore light dresses and fashionable hats .
Really , Louisa was very disagreeable .
`` I have put up with her ways too long , '' thought Mary Isabel , with a quick , unwonted rush of anger .
`` But I never shall again -- no , never , let her be as vexed and scornful as she pleases . ''
The induction services were interesting , and Mary Isabel enjoyed them .
Doctor Hamilton was sitting across from her and once or twice she caught him looking at her admiringly .
The doctor noticed the hat and the grey silk and wondered how Mary Isabel had managed to get her own way concerning them .
What a pretty woman she was !
Really , he had never realized before how very pretty she was .
But then , he had never seen her except in a sunbonnet or with her hair combed primly back .
But when the service was over Mary Isabel was dismayed to see that the sky had clouded over and looked very much like rain .
Everybody hurried home , and Mary Isabel tripped along the shore road filled with anxious thoughts about her dress .
That kind of silk always spotted , and her hat would be ruined if it got wet .
How foolish she had been not to bring an umbrella !
She reached her own doorstep panting just as the first drop of rain fell .
`` Thank goodness , '' she breathed .
Then she tried to open the door .
It would not open .
She could see Louisa sitting by the kitchen window , calmly reading .
`` Louisa , open the door quick , '' she called impatiently .
Louisa never moved a muscle , although Mary Isabel knew she must have heard .
`` Louisa , do you hear what I say ? ''
she cried , reaching over and tapping on the pane imperiously .
`` Open the door at once .
It is going to rain -- it is raining now .
Be quick . ''
Louisa might as well have been a graven image for all the response she gave .
Then did Mary Isabel realize her position .
Louisa had locked her out purposely , knowing the rain was coming .
Louisa had no intention of letting her in ; she meant to keep her out until the dress and hat of her rebellion were spoiled .
This was Louisa's revenge .
Mary Isabel turned with a gasp .
What should she do ?
The padlocked doors of hen-house and well-house and wood-house : revealed the thoroughness of Louisa's vindictive design .
Where should she go ?
She would go somewhere .
She would not have her lovely new dress and hat spoiled !
She caught her ruffled skirts up in her hand and ran across the yard .
She climbed the fence into the field and ran across that .
Another drop of rain struck her cheek .
She never glanced back or she would have seen a horrified face peering from the cottage kitchen window .
Louisa had never dreamed that Mary Isabel would seek refuge over at Dr. Hamilton's .
Dr. Hamilton , who had driven home from church with the young minister , saw her coming and ran to open the door for her .
Mary Isabel dashed up the verandah steps , breathless , crimson-cheeked , trembling with pent-up indignation and sense of outrage .
`` Louisa locked me out , Dr. Hamilton , '' she cried almost hysterically .
`` She locked me out on purpose to spoil my dress .
I'll never forgive her , I'll never go back to her , never , never , unless she asks me to .
I had to come here .
I was not going to have my dress ruined to please Louisa . ''
`` Of course not -- of course not , '' said Dr. Hamilton soothingly , drawing her into his big cosy living room .
`` You did perfectly right to come here , and you are just in time .
There is the rain now in good earnest . ''
Mary Isabel sank into a chair and looked at Dr. Hamilton with tears in her eyes .
`` Wasn't it an unkind , unsisterly thing to do ? ''
she asked piteously .
`` Oh , I shall never feel the same towards Louisa again .
Tom was right -- I didn't tell you about Tom's letter but I will by and by .
I shall not go back to Louisa after her locking me out .
When it stops raining I'll go straight up to my cousin Ella's and stay with her until I arrange my plans .
But one thing is certain , I shall not go back to Louisa . ''
`` I wouldn't , '' said the doctor recklessly .
`` Now , don't cry and don't worry .
Take off your hat -- you can go to the spare room across the hall , if you like .
Jim has gone upstairs to lie down ; he has a bad headache and says he doesn't want any tea .
So I was going to get up a bachelor's snack for myself .
My housekeeper is away .
She heard , at church that her mother was ill and went over to Marwood . ''
When Mary Isabel came back from the spare room , a little calmer but with traces of tears on her pink cheeks , the doctor had as good a tea-table spread as any woman could have had .
Mary Isabel thought it was fortunate that the little errand boy , Tommy Brewster , was there , or she certainly would have been dreadfully embarrassed , now that the flame of her anger had blown out .
But later on , when tea was over and she and the doctor were left alone , she did not feel embarrassed after all .
Instead , she felt delightfully happy and at home .
Dr. Hamilton put one so at ease .
She told him all about Tom's letter and her subsequent revolt .
Dr. Hamilton never once made the mistake of smiling .
He listened and approved and sympathized .
`` So I 'm determined I won't go back , '' concluded Mary Isabel , `` unless she asks me to -- and Louisa will never do that .
Ella will be glad enough to have me for a while ; she has five children and can't get any help . ''
The doctor shrugged his shoulders .
He thought of Mary Isabel as unofficial drudge to Ella Kemble and her family .
Then he looked at the little silvery figure by the window .
`` I think I can suggest a better plan , '' he said gently and tenderly .
`` Suppose you stay here -- as my wife .
I've always wanted to ask you that but I feared it was no use because I knew Louisa would oppose it and I did not think you would consent if she did not .
I think , '' the doctor leaned forward and took Mary Isabel's fluttering hand in his , `` I think we can be very happy here , dear . ''
Mary Isabel flushed crimson and her heart beat wildly .
She knew now that she loved Dr. Hamilton -- and Tom would have liked it -- yes , Tom would .
She remembered how Tom hated the thought of his sisters being old maids .
`` I -- think -- so -- too , '' she faltered shyly .
`` Then , '' said the doctor briskly , `` what is the matter with our being married right here and now ? ''
`` Married ! ''
`` Yes , of course .
Here we are in a state where no licence is required , a minister in the house , and you all dressed in the most beautiful wedding silk imaginable .
You must see , if you just look at it calmly , how much better it will be than going up to Mrs. Kemble's and thereby publishing your difference with Louisa to all the village .
I'll give you fifteen minutes to get used to the idea and then I'll call Jim down . ''
Mary Isabel put her hands to her face .
`` You -- you 're like a whirlwind , '' she gasped .
`` You take away my breath . ''
`` Think it over , '' said the doctor in a businesslike voice .
Mary Isabel thought -- thought very hard for a few moments .
What would Tom have said ?
Was it probable that Tom would have approved of such marrying in haste ?
Mary Isabel came to the decision that he would have preferred it to having family jars bruited abroad .
Moreover , Mary Isabel had never liked Ella Kemble very much .
Going to her was only one degree better than going back to Louisa .
At last Mary Isabel took her hands down from her face .
`` Well ? ''
said the doctor persuasively as she did so .
`` I will consent on one condition , '' said Mary Isabel firmly .
`` And that is , that you will let me send word over to Louisa that I am going to be married and that she may come and see the ceremony if she will .
Louisa has behaved very unkindly in this matter , but after all she is my sister -- and she has been good to me in some ways -- and I am not going to give her a chance to say that I got married in this -- this headlong-fashion and never let her know . ''
`` Tommy can take the word over , '' said the doctor .
Mary Isabel went to the doctor's desk and wrote a very brief note .
Dear Louisa : I am going to be married to Dr. Hamilton right away .
I've seen him often at the shore this summer .
I would like you to be present at the ceremony if you choose .
Mary Isabel .
Tommy ran across the field with the note .
It had now ceased raining and the clouds were breaking .
Mary Isabel thought that a good omen .
She and the doctor watched Tommy from the window .
They saw Louisa come to the door , take the note , and shut the door in Tommy's face .
Ten minutes later she reappeared , habited in her mackintosh , with her second-best bonnet on .
`` She's -- coming , '' said Mary Isabel , trembling .
The doctor put his arm protectingly about the little lady .
Mary Isabel tossed her head .
`` Oh , I 'm not -- I 'm only excited .
I shall never be afraid of Louisa again . ''
Louisa came grimly over the field , up the verandah steps , and into the room without knocking .
`` Mary Isabel , '' she said , glaring at her sister and ignoring the doctor entirely , `` did you mean what you said in that letter ? ''
`` Yes , I did , '' said Mary Isabel firmly .
`` You are going to be married to that man in this shameless , indecent haste ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` And nothing I can say will have the least effect on you ? ''
`` Not the slightest . ''
`` Then , '' said Louisa , more grimly than ever , `` all I ask of you is to come home and be married from under your father's roof .
Do have that much respect for your parents ' memory , at least . ''
`` Of course I will , '' cried Mary Isabel impulsively , softening at once .
`` Of course we will -- won't we ? ''
she asked , turning prettily to the doctor .
`` Just as you say , '' he answered gallantly .
Louisa snorted .
`` I'll go home and air the parlour , '' she said .
`` It's lucky I baked that fruitcake Monday .
You can come when you 're ready . ''
She stalked home across the field .
In a few minutes the doctor and Mary Isabel followed , and behind them came the young minister , carrying his blue book under his arm , and trying hard and not altogether successfully to look grave .
