On the brow of the hill by the Lone Pine sat Reddy Fox .
Every few moments he pointed his little black nose up at the round , yellow moon and barked .
Way over across the broad White Meadows , which in summer time are green , you know , in the dooryard of Farmer Brown's house , Bowser the Hound sat and barked at the moon , too .
`` Yap-yap-yap , '' barked Reddy Fox , as loud as he could .
`` Bow-wow-wow , '' said Bowser the Hound in his deepest voice .
Then both would listen and watch the million little stars twinkle and twinkle in the frosty sky .
Now just why Reddy Fox should bark at the moon he did not know .
He just had to .
Every night for a week he had sat at the foot of the Lone Pine and barked and barked until his throat was sore .
Every night old Mother Fox had warned him that noisy children would come to no good end , and every night Reddy had promised that he would bark no more .
But every night when the first silver flood of witching light crept over the hill and cast strange shadows from the naked branches of the trees , Reddy forgot all about his promise .
Deep down under his little red coat was a strange feeling which he could not explain .
He simply must bark , so up to the Lone Pine he would go and yap and yap and yap , until all the little meadow people who were not asleep knew just where Reddy Fox was .
Bowser the Hound knew , too , and he made up his mind that Reddy Fox was making fun of him .
Now Bowser did not like to be made fun of any more than little boys and girls do , and he made up his mind that if ever he could break his chain , or that if ever Farmer Brown forgot to chain him up , he would teach Reddy Fox a lesson that Reddy would never forget .
`` Yap-yap-yap , '' barked Reddy Fox , and then listened to hear Bowser's deep voice reply .
But this time there was no reply .
Reddy listened , and listened , and then tried it again .
Way off on a distant hill he could hear Hooty the Owl .
Close by him Jack Frost was busy snapping sticks .
Down on the White Meadows he could see Jimmy Skunk prowling about .
Once he heard a rooster crow sleepily in Farmer Brown's hen-house , but he thought of Bowser the Hound , and though his mouth watered , he did not dare risk a closer acquaintance with the big dog .
So he sat still and barked , and pretty soon he forgot all else but the moon and the sound of his own voice .
Now Bowser the Hound had managed to slip his collar .
`` Aha , '' thought Bowser , `` now I'll teach Reddy Fox to make fun of me , '' and like a shadow he slipped through the fence and across the White Meadows towards the Lone Pine .
Reddy Fox had just barked for the hundreth time when he heard a twig crack just back of him .
It had a different sound from the noisy crack of Jack Frost , and Reddy stopped a yap right in the middle and whirled about to see what it might be .
There was Bowser the Hound almost upon him , his eyes flashing fire , his great , red jaws wide open , and every hair on his back bristling with rage .
Reddy Fox didn't wait to say `` Good evening , '' or to see more .
Oh , no !
He turned a back somersault and away he sped over the hard , snowy crust as fast as his legs could carry him .
Bowser baying at the moon he liked to hear , but Bowser baying at his heels was another matter , and Reddy ran as he had never run before .
Down across the White Meadows he sped , Bowser frightening all the echoes with the roar of his big voice as he followed in full cry .
How Reddy did wish that he had minded Mother Fox !
How safe and snug and warm was his home under the roots of the old hickory tree , and how he did wish that he was safely there !
But it would never do to go there now , for that would tell Bowser where he lived , and Bowser would take Farmer Brown there , and that would be the end of Reddy Fox and of Mother Fox and of all the brother and sister foxes .
So Reddy twisted and turned , and ran this way and ran that way , and the longer he ran , the shorter his breath grew .
It was coming in great pants now .
His bushy tail , of which he was so proud , had become very heavy .
How Reddy Fox did wish and wish that he had minded Mother Fox !
He twisted and turned , and doubled this way and that way , and all the time Bowser the Hound got closer and closer .
Now way off on the hill behind the White Meadows Mother Fox had been hunting for her supper .
She had heard the `` Yap-yap-yap '' of Reddy Fox as he barked at the moon , and she had heard Bowser baying over in the barnyard of Farmer Brown .
Then she had heard the `` yap '' of Reddy Fox cut short in the middle and the roar of Bowser's big voice as he started to chase Reddy Fox .
She knew that Reddy could run fast , but she also knew that Bowser the Hound had a wonderful nose , and that Bowser would never give up .
So Mother Fox pattered down the Crooked Little Path onto the White Meadows , where she could see the chase .
When she got near enough , she barked twice to tell Reddy that she would help him .
Now Reddy Fox was so tired that he was almost in despair when he heard Mother Fox bark .
But he knew that Mother Fox was so wise , and she had so often fooled Bowser the Hound , that if he could hold out just a little longer she would help him .
So for a few minutes he ran faster than ever and he gained a long way on Bowser the Hound .
As he passed a shock of corn that had been left standing on the White Meadows , Mother Fox stepped out from behind it .
`` Go home , Reddy Fox , '' said she , sharply , `` go home and stay there until I come . ''
Then she deliberately sat down in front of the shock of corn to wait until Bowser the Hound should come in sight .
Now Bowser the Hound kept his eyes and nose on the track of Reddy Fox , looking up only once in a while to see where he was going , so he did not see Reddy Fox slip behind the corn shock , and when he did look up , he saw only Mother Fox sitting there waiting for him .
Now Bowser the Hound thinks slowly .
When he saw old Mother Fox sitting there , he did not stop to think that it was not Reddy Fox whom he had been following , or he would have known better than to waste his time following old Mother Fox .
He would have just hunted around until he had found where Reddy had gone to .
But Bowser the Hound thinks slowly .
When he saw old Mother Fox sitting there , he thought it was Reddy Fox and that now he had him .
With a great roar of his big voice , he sprang forward .
Mother Fox waited until he was almost upon her , then springing to one side , she trotted off a little way .
At once Bowser the Hound started after her .
She pretended to be very tired .
Every time he rushed forward she managed to just slip out of his grasp .
Little by little she led him across the White Meadows back towards Farmer Brown's barnyard .
Pretty soon old Mother Fox began to run as fast as she could , and that is very fast indeed .
She left Bowser the Hound a long , long way behind .
When she came to a stone wall she jumped up on the stone wall and ran along it , just like a squirrel .
Every once in a while she would make a long jump and then trot along a little way again .
She knew that stones do not carry the scent well , and that Bowser the Hound would have hard work to smell her on the stone wall .
Way down at the end of the pasture an old apple tree stretched a long limb out towards the stone wall .
When she got opposite to this she jumped onto this long limb and ran up into the tree .
There in the crotch , close to the trunk , she sat and watched .
Bowser the Hound , making a tremendous noise , followed her trail up to the stone wall .
Then he was puzzled .
He sniffed this way , and he sniffed that way , but he could not tell where Mother Fox had disappeared to .
He looked up at old Mother Moon and bayed and bayed , but old Mother Moon did not help him a bit .
Then he jumped over the stone wall and looked , and looked , and smelled , and smelled , but no track of Mother Fox could he find .
Then he ran up along the stone wall a little way , and then down along the stone wall a little way , but still he could not find a track of Mother Fox .
The longer he hunted , the angrier he grew .
Old Mother Fox , sitting in the apple tree , watched him and laughed and laughed to herself .
Then when she grew tired of watching him , she made a long jump out into the field and trotted off home to punish Reddy Fox for his disobedience .
When she got there she found Reddy Fox very much ashamed , very tired and very sorrowful , and since that time Reddy Fox has never barked at the moon .
