You would have me tell you the story , Grandchild ?
'T is a sad one and best forgotten -- few remember it now .
There are always sad and dark stories in old families such as ours .
Yet I have promised and must keep my word .
So sit down here at my feet and rest your bright head on my lap , that I may not see in your young eyes the shadows my story will bring across their bonny blue .
I was a mere child when it all happened , yet I remember it but too well , and I can recall how pleased I was when my father's stepmother , Mrs. Montressor -- she not liking to be called grandmother , seeing she was but turned of fifty and a handsome woman still -- wrote to my mother that she must send little Beatrice up to Montressor Place for the Christmas holidays .
So I went joyfully though my mother grieved to part with me ; she had little to love save me , my father , Conrad Montressor , having been lost at sea when but three months wed. .
My aunts were wont to tell me how much I resembled him , being , so they said , a Montressor to the backbone ; and this I took to mean commendation , for the Montressors were a well-descended and well-thought-of family , and the women were noted for their beauty .
This I could well believe , since of all my aunts there was not one but was counted a pretty woman .
Therefore I took heart of grace when I thought of my dark face and spindling shape , hoping that when I should be grown up I might be counted not unworthy of my race .
The Place was an old-fashioned , mysterious house , such as I delighted in , and Mrs. Montressor was ever kind to me , albeit a little stern , for she was a proud woman and cared but little for children , having none of her own .
But there were books there to pore over without let or hindrance -- for nobody questioned of my whereabouts if I but kept out of the way -- and strange , dim family portraits on the walls to gaze upon , until I knew each proud old face well , and had visioned a history for it in my own mind -- for I was given to dreaming and was older and wiser than my years , having no childish companions to keep me still a child .
There were always some of my aunts at the Place to kiss and make much of me for my father's sake -- for he had been their favourite brother .
My aunts -- there were eight of them -- had all married well , so said people who knew , and lived not far away , coming home often to take tea with Mrs. Montressor , who had always gotten on well with her step-daughters , or to help prepare for some festivity or other -- for they were notable housekeepers , every one .
They were all at Montressor Place for Christmas , and I got more petting than I deserved , albeit they looked after me somewhat more strictly than did Mrs. Montressor , and saw to it that I did not read too many fairy tales or sit up later at nights than became my years .
But it was not for fairy tales and sugarplums nor yet for petting that I rejoiced to be at the Place at that time .
Though I spoke not of it to anyone , I had a great longing to see my Uncle Hugh's wife , concerning whom I had heard much , both good and bad .
My Uncle Hugh , albeit the oldest of the family , had never married until now , and all the countryside rang with talk of his young wife .
I did not hear as much as I wished , for the gossips took heed to my presence when I drew anear and turned to other matters .
Yet , being somewhat keener of comprehension than they knew , I heard and understood not a little of their talk .
And so I came to know that neither proud Mrs. Montressor nor my good aunts , nor even my gentle mother , looked with overmuch favour on what my Uncle Hugh had done .
And I did hear that Mrs. Montressor had chosen a wife for her stepson , of good family and some beauty , but that my Uncle Hugh would have none of her -- a thing Mrs. Montressor found hard to pardon , yet might so have done had not my uncle , on his last voyage to the Indies -- for he went often in his own vessels -- married and brought home a foreign bride , of whom no one knew aught save that her beauty was a thing to dazzle the day and that she was of some strange alien blood such as ran not in the blue veins of the Montressors .
Some had much to say of her pride and insolence , and wondered if Mrs. Montressor would tamely yield her mistress-ship to the stranger .
But others , who were taken with her loveliness and grace , said that the tales told were born of envy and malice , and that Alicia Montressor was well worthy of her name and station .
So I halted between two opinions and thought to judge for myself , but when I went to the Place my Uncle Hugh and his bride were gone for a time , and I had even to swallow my disappointment and bide their return with all my small patience .
But my aunts and their stepmother talked much of Alicia , and they spoke slightingly of her , saying that she was but a light woman and that no good would come of my Uncle Hugh's having wed her , with other things of a like nature .
Also they spoke of the company she gathered around her , thinking her to have strange and unbecoming companions for a Montressor .
All this I heard and pondered much over , although my good aunts supposed that such a chit as I would take no heed to their whisperings .
When I was not with them , helping to whip eggs and stone raisins , and being watched to see that I ate not more than one out of five , I was surely to be found in the wing hall , poring over my book and grieving that I was no more allowed to go into the Red Room .
The wing hall was a narrow one and dim , connecting the main rooms of the Place with an older wing , built in a curious way .
The hall was lighted by small , square-paned windows , and at its end a little flight of steps led up to the Red Room .
Whenever I had been at the Place before -- and this was often -- I had passed much of my time in this same Red Room .
It was Mrs. Montressor's sitting-room then , where she wrote her letters and examined household accounts , and sometimes had an old gossip in to tea .
The room was low-ceilinged and dim , hung with red damask , and with odd , square windows high up under the eaves and a dark wainscoting all around it .
And there I loved to sit quietly on the red sofa and read my fairy tales , or talk dreamily to the swallows fluttering crazily against the tiny panes .
When I had gone this Christmas to the Place I soon bethought myself of the Red Room -- for I had a great love for it .
But I had got no further than the steps when Mrs. Montressor came sweeping down the hall in haste and , catching me by the arm , pulled me back as roughly as if it had been Bluebeard's chamber itself into which I was venturing .
Then , seeing my face , which I doubt not was startled enough , she seemed to repent of her haste and patted me gently on the head .
`` There , there , little Beatrice !
Did I frighten you , child ?
Forgive an old woman's thoughtlessness .
But be not too ready to go where you are not bidden , and never venture foot in the Red Room now , for it belongs to your Uncle Hugh's wife , and let me tell you she is not over fond of intruders . ''
I felt sorry overmuch to hear this , nor could I see why my new aunt should care if I went in once in a while , as had been my habit , to talk to the swallows and misplace nothing .
But Mrs. Montressor saw to it that I obeyed her , and I went no more to the Red Room , but busied myself with other matters .
For there were great doings at the Place and much coming and going .
My aunts were never idle ; there was to be much festivity Christmas week and a ball on Christmas Eve .
And my aunts had promised me -- though not till I had wearied them of my coaxing -- that I should stay up that night and see as much of the gaiety as was good for me .
So I did their errands and went early to bed every night without complaint -- though I did this the more readily for that , when they thought me safely asleep , they would come in and talk around my bedroom fire , saying that of Alicia which I should not have heard .
At last came the day when my Uncle Hugh and his wife were expected home -- though not until my scanty patience was well nigh wearied out -- and we were all assembled to meet them in the great hall , where a ruddy firelight was gleaming .
My Aunt Frances had dressed me in my best white frock and my crimson sash , with much lamenting over my skinny neck and arms , and bade me behave prettily , as became my bringing up .
So I slipped in a corner , my hands and feet cold with excitement , for I think every drop of blood in my body had gone to my head , and my heart beat so hardly that it even pained me .
Then the door opened and Alicia -- for so I was used to hearing her called , nor did I ever think of her as my aunt in my own mind -- came in , and a little in the rear my tall , dark uncle .
She came proudly forward to the fire and stood there superbly while she loosened her cloak , nor did she see me at all at first , but nodded , a little disdainfully , it seemed , to Mrs. Montressor and my aunts , who were grouped about the drawing-room door , very ladylike and quiet .
But I neither saw nor heard aught at the time save her only , for her beauty , when she came forth from her crimson cloak and hood , was something so wonderful that I forgot my manners and stared at her as one fascinated -- as indeed I was , for never had I seen such loveliness and hardly dreamed it .
Pretty women I had seen in plenty , for my aunts and my mother were counted fair , but my uncle's wife was as little like to them as a sunset glow to pale moonshine or a crimson rose to white day-lilies .
Nor can I paint her to you in words as I saw her then , with the long tongues of firelight licking her white neck and wavering over the rich masses of her red-gold hair .
She was tall -- so tall that my aunts looked but insignificant beside her , and they were of no mean height , as became their race ; yet no queen could have carried herself more royally , and all the passion and fire of her foreign nature burned in her splendid eyes , that might have been dark or light for aught that I could ever tell , but which seemed always like pools of warm flame , now tender , now fierce .
Her skin was like a delicate white rose leaf , and when she spoke I told my foolish self that never had I heard music before ; nor do I ever again think to hear a voice so sweet , so liquid , as that which rippled over her ripe lips .
I had often in my own mind pictured this , my first meeting with Alicia , now in one way , now in another , but never had I dreamed of her speaking to me at all , so that it came to me as a great surprise when she turned and , holding out her lovely hands , said very graciously : `` And is this the little Beatrice ?
I have heard much of you -- come , kiss me , child . ''
And I went , despite my Aunt Elizabeth's black frown , for the glamour of her loveliness was upon me , and I no longer wondered that my Uncle Hugh should have loved her .
Very proud of her was he too ; yet I felt , rather than saw -- for I was sensitive and quick of perception , as old-young children ever are -- that there was something other than pride and love in his face when he looked on her , and more in his manner than the fond lover -- as it were , a sort of lurking mistrust .
Nor could I think , though to me the thought seemed as treason , that she loved her husband overmuch , for she seemed half condescending and half disdainful to him ; yet one thought not of this in her presence , but only remembered it when she had gone .
When she went out it seemed to me that nothing was left , so I crept lonesomely away to the wing hall and sat down by a window to dream of her ; and she filled my thoughts so fully that it was no surprise when I raised my eyes and saw her coming down the hall alone , her bright head shining against the dark old walls .
When she paused by me and asked me lightly of what I was dreaming , since I had such a sober face , I answered her truly that it was of her -- whereat she laughed , as one not ill pleased , and said half mockingly : `` Waste not your thoughts so , little Beatrice .
But come with me , child , if you will , for I have taken a strange fancy to your solemn eyes .
Perchance the warmth of your young life may thaw out the ice that has frozen around my heart ever since I came among these cold Montressors . ''
And , though I understood not her meaning , I went , glad to see the Red Room once more .
So she made me sit down and talk to her , which I did , for shyness was no failing of mine ; and she asked me many questions , and some that I thought she should not have asked , but I could not answer them , so ` twere little harm .
After that I spent a part of every day with her in the Red Room .
And my Uncle Hugh was there often , and he would kiss her and praise her loveliness , not heeding my presence -- for I was but a child .
Yet it ever seemed to me that she endured rather than welcomed his caresses , and at times the ever-burning flame in her eyes glowed so luridly that a chill dread would creep over me , and I would remember what my Aunt Elizabeth had said , she being a bitter-tongued woman , though kind at heart -- that this strange creature would bring on us all some evil fortune yet .
Then would I strive to banish such thoughts and chide myself for doubting one so kind to me .
When Christmas Eve drew nigh my silly head was full of the ball day and night .
But a grievous disappointment befell me , for I awakened that day very ill with a most severe cold ; and though I bore me bravely , my aunts discovered it soon , when , despite my piteous pleadings , I was put to bed , where I cried bitterly and would not be comforted .
For I thought I should not see the fine folk and , more than all , Alicia .
But that disappointment , at least , was spared me , for at night she came into my room , knowing of my longing -- she was ever indulgent to my little wishes .
And when I saw her I forgot my aching limbs and burning brow , and even the ball I was not to see , for never was mortal creature so lovely as she , standing there by my bed .
Her gown was of white , and there was nothing I could liken the stuff to save moonshine falling athwart a frosted pane , and out from it swelled her gleaming breast and arms , so bare that it seemed to me a shame to look upon them .
Yet it could not be denied they were of wondrous beauty , white as polished marble .
And all about her snowy throat and rounded arms , and in the masses of her splendid hair , were sparkling , gleaming stones , with hearts of pure light , which I know now to have been diamonds , but knew not then , for never had I seen aught of their like .
And I gazed at her , drinking in her beauty until my soul was filled , as she stood like some goddess before her worshipper .
I think she read my thought in my face and liked it -- for she was a vain woman , and to such even the admiration of a child is sweet .
Then she leaned down to me until her splendid eyes looked straight into my dazzled ones .
`` Tell me , little Beatrice -- for they say the word of a child is to be believed -- tell me , do you think me beautiful ? ''
I found my voice and told her truly that I thought her beautiful beyond my dreams of angels -- as indeed she was .
Whereat she smiled as one well pleased .
Then my Uncle Hugh came in , and though I thought that his face darkened as he looked on the naked splendour of her breast and arms , as if he liked not that the eyes of other men should gloat on it , yet he kissed her with all a lover's fond pride , while she looked at him half mockingly .
Then said he , `` Sweet , will you grant me a favour ? ''
And she answered , `` It may be that I will . ''
And he said , `` Do not dance with that man tonight , Alicia .
I mistrust him much . ''
His voice had more of a husband's command than a lover's entreaty .
She looked at him with some scorn , but when she saw his face grow black -- for the Montressors brooked scant disregard of their authority , as I had good reason to know -- she seemed to change , and a smile came to her lips , though her eyes glowed balefully .
Then she laid her arms about his neck and -- though it seemed to me that she had as soon strangled as embraced him -- her voice was wondrous sweet and caressing as she murmured in his ear .
He laughed and his brow cleared , though he said still sternly , `` Do not try me too far , Alicia . ''
Then they went out , she a little in advance and very stately .
After that my aunts also came in , very beautifully and modestly dressed , but they seemed to me as nothing after Alicia .
For I was caught in the snare of her beauty , and the longing to see her again so grew upon me that after a time I did an undutiful and disobedient thing .
I had been straitly charged to stay in bed , which I did not , but got up and put on a gown .
For it was in my mind to go quietly down , if by chance I might again see Alicia , myself unseen .
But when I reached the great hall I heard steps approaching and , having a guilty conscience , I slipped aside into the blue parlour and hid me behind the curtains lest my aunts should see me .
Then Alicia came in , and with her a man whom I had never before seen .
Yet I instantly bethought myself of a lean black snake , with a glittering and evil eye , which I had seen in Mrs. Montressor's garden two summers agone , and which was like to have bitten me .
John , the gardener , had killed it , and I verily thought that if it had a soul , it must have gotten into this man .
Alicia sat down and he beside her , and when he had put his arms about her , he kissed her face and lips .
Nor did she shrink from his embrace , but even smiled and leaned nearer to him with a little smooth motion , as they talked to each other in some strange , foreign tongue .
I was but a child and innocent , nor knew I aught of honour and dishonour .
Yet it seemed to me that no man should kiss her save only my Uncle Hugh , and from that hour I mistrusted Alicia , though I understood not then what I afterwards did .
And as I watched them -- not thinking of playing the spy -- I saw her face grow suddenly cold , and she straightened herself up and pushed away her lover's arms .
Then I followed her guilty eyes to the door , where stood my Uncle Hugh , and all the pride and passion of the Montressors sat on his lowering brow .
Yet he came forward quietly as Alicia and the snake drew apart and stood up .
At first he looked not at his guilty wife but at her lover , and smote him heavily in the face .
Whereat he , being a coward at heart , as are all villains , turned white and slunk from the room with a muttered oath , nor was he stayed .
My uncle turned to Alicia , and very calmly and terribly he said , `` From this hour you are no longer wife of mine ! ''
And there was that in his tone which told that his forgiveness and love should be hers nevermore .
Then he motioned her out and she went , like a proud queen , with her glorious head erect and no shame on her brow .
As for me , when they were gone I crept away , dazed and bewildered enough , and went back to my bed , having seen and heard more than I had a mind for , as disobedient people and eavesdroppers ever do .
But my Uncle Hugh kept his word , and Alicia was no more wife to him , save only in name .
Yet of gossip or scandal there was none , for the pride of his race kept secret his dishonour , nor did he ever seem other than a courteous and respectful husband .
Nor did Mrs. Montressor and my aunts , though they wondered much among themselves , learn aught , for they dared question neither their brother nor Alicia , who carried herself as loftily as ever , and seemed to pine for neither lover nor husband .
As for me , no one dreamed I knew aught of it , and I kept my own counsel as to what I had seen in the blue parlour on the night of the Christmas ball .
After the New Year I went home , but ere long Mrs. Montressor sent for me again , saying that the house was lonely without little Beatrice .
So I went again and found all unchanged , though the Place was very quiet , and Alicia went out but little from the Red Room .
Of my Uncle Hugh I saw little , save when he went and came on the business of his estate , somewhat more gravely and silently than of yore , or brought to me books and sweetmeats from town .
But every day I was with Alicia in the Red Room , where she would talk to me , oftentimes wildly and strangely , but always kindly .
And though I think Mrs. Montressor liked our intimacy none too well , she said no word , and I came and went as I listed with Alicia , though never quite liking her strange ways and the restless fire in her eyes .
Nor would I ever kiss her , after I had seen her lips pressed by the snake's , though she sometimes coaxed me , and grew pettish and vexed when I would not ; but she guessed not my reason .
March came in that year like a lion , exceedingly hungry and fierce , and my Uncle Hugh had ridden away through the storm nor thought to be back for some days .
In the afternoon I was sitting in the wing hall , dreaming wondrous day-dreams , when Alicia called me to the Red Room .
And as I went , I marvelled anew at her loveliness , for the blood was leaping in her face and her jewels were dim before the lustre of her eyes .
Her hand , when she took mine , was burning hot , and her voice had a strange ring .
`` Come , little Beatrice , '' she said , `` come talk to me , for I know not what to do with my lone self today .
Time hangs heavily in this gloomy house .
I do verily think this Red Room has an evil influence over me .
See if your childish prattle can drive away the ghosts that riot in these dark old corners -- ghosts of a ruined and shamed life !
Nay , shrink not -- do I talk wildly ?
I mean not all I say -- my brain seems on fire , little Beatrice .
Come ; it may be you know some grim old legend of this room -- it must surely have one .
Never was place fitter for a dark deed !
Tush !
never be so frightened , child -- forget my vagaries .
Tell me now and I will listen . ''
Whereat she cast herself lithely on the satin couch and turned her lovely face on me .
So I gathered up my small wits and told her what I was not supposed to know -- how that , generations agone , a Montressor had disgraced himself and his name , and that , when he came home to his mother , she had met him in that same Red Room and flung at him taunts and reproaches , forgetting whose breast had nourished him ; and that he , frantic with shame and despair , turned his sword against his own heart and so died .
But his mother went mad with her remorse , and was kept a prisoner in the Red Room until her death .
So lamely told I the tale , as I had heard my Aunt Elizabeth tell it , when she knew not I listened or understood .
Alicia heard me through and said nothing , save that it was a tale worthy of the Montressors .
Whereat I bridled , for I too was a Montressor , and proud of it .
But she took my hand soothingly in hers and said , `` Little Beatrice , if tomorrow or the next day they should tell you , those cold , proud women , that Alicia was unworthy of your love , tell me , would you believe them ? ''
And I , remembering what I had seen in the blue parlour , was silent -- for I could not lie .
So she flung my hand away with a bitter laugh , and picked lightly from the table anear a small dagger with a jewelled handle .
It seemed to me a cruel-looking toy and I said so -- whereat she smiled and drew her white fingers down the thin , shining blade in a fashion that made me cold .
`` Such a little blow with this , '' she said , `` such a little blow -- and the heart beats no longer , the weary brain rests , the lips and eyes smile never again !
` Twere a short path out of all difficulties , my Beatrice . ''
And I , understanding her not , yet shivering , begged her to cast it aside , which she did carelessly and , putting a hand under my chin , she turned up my face to hers .
`` Little , grave-eyed Beatrice , tell me truly , would it grieve you much if you were never again to sit here with Alicia in this same Red Room ? ''
And I made answer earnestly that it would , glad that I could say so much truly .
Then her face grew tender and she sighed deeply .
Presently she opened a quaint , inlaid box and took from it a shining gold chain of rare workmanship and exquisite design , and this she hung around my neck , nor would suffer me to thank her but laid her hand gently on my lips .
`` Now go , '' she said .
`` But ere you leave me , little Beatrice , grant me but the one favour -- it may be that I shall never ask another of you .
Your people , I know -- those cold Montressors -- care little for me , but with all my faults , I have ever been kind to you .
So , when the morrow's come , and they tell you that Alicia is as one worse than dead , think not of me with scorn only but grant me a little pity -- for I was not always what I am now , and might never have become so had a little child like you been always anear me , to keep me pure and innocent .
And I would have you but the once lay your arms about my neck and kiss me . ''
And I did so , wondering much at her manner -- for it had in it a strange tenderness and some sort of hopeless longing .
Then she gently put me from the room , and I sat musing by the hall window until night fell darkly -- and a fearsome night it was , of storm and blackness .
And I thought how well it was that my Uncle Hugh had not to return in such a tempest .
Yet , ere the thought had grown cold , the door opened and he strode down the hall , his cloak drenched and wind-twisted , in one hand a whip , as though he had but then sprung from his horse , in the other what seemed like a crumpled letter .
Nor was the night blacker than his face , and he took no heed of me as I ran after him , thinking selfishly of the sweetmeats he had promised to bring me -- but I thought no more of them when I got to the door of the Red Room .
Alicia stood by the table , hooded and cloaked as for a journey , but her hood had slipped back , and her face rose from it marble-white , save where her wrathful eyes burned out , with dread and guilt and hatred in their depths , while she had one arm raised as if to thrust him back .
As for my uncle , he stood before her and I saw not his face , but his voice was low and terrible , speaking words I understood not then , though long afterwards I came to know their meaning .
And he cast foul scorn at her that she should have thought to fly with her lover , and swore that naught should again thwart his vengeance , with other threats , wild and dreadful enough .
Yet she said no word until he had done , and then she spoke , but what she said I know not , save that it was full of hatred and defiance and wild accusation , such as a mad woman might have uttered .
And she defied him even then to stop her flight , though he told her to cross that threshold would mean her death ; for he was a wronged and desperate man and thought of nothing save his own dishonour .
Then she made as if to pass him , but he caught her by her white wrist ; she turned on him with fury , and I saw her right hand reach stealthily out over the table behind her , where lay the dagger .
`` Let me go ! ''
she hissed .
And he said , `` I will not . ''
Then she turned herself about and struck at him with the dagger -- and never saw I such a face as was hers at the moment .
He fell heavily , yet held her even in death , so that she had to wrench herself free , with a shriek that rings yet in my ears on a night when the wind wails over the rainy moors .
She rushed past me unheeding , and fled down the hall like a hunted creature , and I heard the heavy door clang hollowly behind her .
As for me , I stood there looking at the dead man , for I could neither move nor speak and was like to have died of horror .
And presently I knew nothing , nor did I come to my recollection for many a day , when I lay abed , sick of a fever and more like to die than live .
So that when at last I came out from the shadow of death , my Uncle Hugh had been long cold in his grave , and the hue and cry for his guilty wife was well nigh over , since naught had been seen or heard of her since she fled the country with her foreign lover .
When I came rightly to my remembrance , they questioned me as to what I had seen and heard in the Red Room .
And I told them as best I could , though much aggrieved that to my questions they would answer nothing save to bid me to stay still and think not of the matter .
Then my mother , sorely vexed over my adventures -- which in truth were but sorry ones for a child -- took me home .
Nor would she let me keep Alicia's chain , but made away with it , how I knew not and little cared , for the sight of it was loathsome to me .
It was many years ere I went again to Montressor Place , and I never saw the Red Room more , for Mrs. Montressor had the old wing torn down , deeming its sorrowful memories dark heritage enough for the next Montressor .
So , Grandchild , the sad tale is ended , and you will not see the Red Room when you go next month to Montressor Place .
The swallows still build under the eaves , though -- I know not if you will understand their speech as I did .
