Once upon a time there lived a youth who was never happy unless he was prying into something that other people knew nothing about .
After he had learned to understand the language of birds and beasts , he discovered accidentally that a great deal took place under cover of night which mortal eyes never saw .
From that moment he felt he could not rest till these hidden secrets were laid bare to him , and he spent his whole time wandering from one wizard to another , begging them to open his eyes , but found none to help him .
At length he reached an old magician called Mana , whose learning was greater than that of the rest , and who could tell him all he wanted to know .
But when the old man had listened attentively to him , he said , warningly : ` My son , do not follow after empty knowledge , which will not bring you happiness , but rather evil .
Much is hidden from the eyes of men , because did they know everything their hearts would no longer be at peace .
Knowledge kills joy , therefore think well what you are doing , or some day you will repent .
But if you will not take my advice , then truly I can show you the secrets of the night .
Only you will need more than a man's courage to bear the sight . '
He stopped and looked at the young man , who nodded his head , and then the wizard continued , ` To-morrow night you must go to the place where , once in seven years , the serpent-king gives a great feast to his whole court .
In front of him stands a golden bowl filled with goats ' milk , and if you can manage to dip a piece of bread in this milk , and eat it before you are obliged to fly , you will understand all the secrets of the night that are hidden from other men .
It is lucky for you that the serpent-king's feast happens to fall this year , otherwise you would have had long to wait for it .
But take care to be quick and bold , or it will be the worse for you . '
The young man thanked the wizard for his counsel , and went his way firmly resolved to carry out his purpose , even if he paid for it with his life ; and when night came he set out for a wide , lonely moor , where the serpent-king held his feast .
With sharpened eyes , he looked eagerly all round him , but could see nothing but a multitude of small hillocks , that lay motionless under the moonlight .
He crouched behind a bush for some time , till he felt that midnight could not be far off , when suddenly there arose in the middle of the moor a brilliant glow , as if a star was shining over one of the hillocks .
At the same moment all the hillocks began to writhe and to crawl , and from each one came hundreds of serpents and made straight for the glow , where they knew they should find their king .
When they reached the hillock where he dwelt , which was higher and broader than the rest , and had a bright light hanging over the top , they coiled themselves up and waited .
The whirr and confusion from all the serpent-houses were so great that the youth did not dare to advance one step , but remained where he was , watching intently all that went on ; but at last he began to take courage , and moved on softly step by step .
What he saw was creepier than creepy , and surpassed all he had ever dreamt of .
Thousands of snakes , big and little and of every colour , were gathered together in one great cluster round a huge serpent , whose body was as thick as a beam , and which had on its head a golden crown , from which the light sprang .
Their hissings and darting tongues so terrified the young man that his heart sank , and he felt he should never have courage to push on to certain death , when suddenly he caught sight of the golden bowl in front of the serpent-king , and knew that if he lost this chance it would never come back .
So , with his hair standing on end and his blood frozen in his veins , he crept forwards .
Oh !
what a noise and a whirr rose afresh among the serpents .
Thousands of heads were reared , and tongues were stretched out to sting the intruder to death , but happily for him their bodies were so closely entwined one in the other that they could not disentangle themselves quickly .
Like lightning he seized a bit of bread , dipped it in the bowl , and put it in his mouth , then dashed away as if fire was pursuing him .
On he flew as if a whole army of foes were at his heels , and he seemed to hear the noise of their approach growing nearer and nearer .
At length his breath failed him , and he threw himself almost senseless on the turf .
While he lay there dreadful dreams haunted him .
He thought that the serpent-king with the fiery crown had twined himself round him , and was crushing out his life .
With a loud shriek he sprang up to do battle with his enemy , when he saw that it was rays of the sun which had wakened him .
He rubbed his eyes and looked all round , but nothing could he see of the foes of the past night , and the moor where he had run into such danger must be at least a mile away .
But it was no dream that he had run hard and far , or that he had drunk of the magic goats ' milk .
And when he felt his limbs , and found them whole , his joy was great that he had come through such perils with a sound skin .
After the fatigues and terrors of the night , he lay still till mid-day , but he made up his mind he would go that very evening into the forest to try what the goats ' milk could really do for him , and if he would now be able to understand all that had been a mystery to him .
And once in the forest his doubts were set at rest , for he saw what no mortal eyes had ever seen before .
Beneath the trees were golden pavilions , with flags of silver all brightly lighted up .
He was still wondering why the pavilions were there , when a noise was heard among the trees , as if the wind had suddenly got up , and on all sides beautiful maidens stepped from the trees into the bright light of the moon .
These were the wood-nymphs , daughters of the earth-mother , who came every night to hold their dances , in the forest .
The young man , watching from his hiding place , wished he had a hundred eyes in his head , for two were not nearly enough for the sight before him , the dances lasting till the first streaks of dawn .
Then a silvery veil seemed to be drawn over the ladies , and they vanished from sight .
But the young man remained where he was till the sun was high in the heavens , and then went home .
He felt that day to be endless , and counted the minutes till night should come , and he might return to the forest .
But when at last he got there he found neither pavilions nor nymphs , and though he went back many nights after he never saw them again .
Still , he thought about them night and day , and ceased to care about anything else in the world , and was sick to the end of his life with longing for that beautiful vision .
And that was the way he learned that the wizard had spoken truly when he said , ` Blindness is man's highest good . '
Once upon a time what happened did happen : and if it had not happened , you would never have heard this story .
Well , once upon a time there lived an emperor who had half a world all to himself to rule over , and in this world dwelt an old herd and his wife and their three daughters , Anna , Stana , and Laptitza .
Anna , the eldest , was so beautiful that when she took the sheep to pasture they forgot to eat as long as she was walking with them .
Stana , the second , was so beautiful that when she was driving the flock the wolves protected the sheep .
But Laptitza , the youngest , with a skin as white as the foam on the milk , and with hair as soft as the finest lamb's wool , was as beautiful as both her sisters put together -- as beautiful as she alone could be .
One summer day , when the rays of the sun were pouring down on the earth , the three sisters went to the wood on the outskirts of the mountain to pick strawberries .
As they were looking about to find where the largest berries grew they heard the tramp of horses approaching , so loud that you would have thought a whole army was riding by .
But it was only the emperor going to hunt with his friends and attendants .
They were all fine handsome young men , who sat their horses as if they were part of them , but the finest and handsomest of all was the young emperor himself .
As they drew near the three sisters , and marked their beauty , they checked their horses and rode slowly by .
` Listen , sisters ! '
said Anna , as they passed on .
` If one of those young men should make me his wife , I would bake him a loaf of bread which should keep him young and brave for ever . '
` And if I , ' said Stana , ` should be the one chosen , I would weave my husband a shirt which will keep him unscathed when he fights with dragons ; when he goes through water he will never even be wet ; or if through fire , it will not scorch him . '
` And I , ' said Laptitza , ` will give the man who chooses me two boys , twins , each with a golden star on his forehead , as bright as those in the sky . '
And though they spoke low the young men heard , and turned their horses ' heads . '
I take you at your word , and mine shall you be , most lovely of empresses ! '
cried the emperor , and swung Laptitza and her strawberries on the horse before him .
` And I will have you , ' ` And I you , ' exclaimed two of his friends , and they all rode back to the palace together .
The following morning the marriage ceremony took place , and for three days and three nights there was nothing but feasting over the whole kingdom .
And when the rejoicings were over the news was in everybody's mouth that Anna had sent for corn , and had made the loaf of which she had spoken at the strawberry beds .
And then more days and nights passed , and this rumour was succeeded by another one -- that Stana had procured some flax , and had dried it , and combed it , and spun it into linen , and sewed it herself into the shirt of which she had spoken over the strawberry beds .
Now the emperor had a stepmother , and she had a daughter by her first husband , who lived with her in the palace .
The girl's mother had always believed that her daughter would be empress , and not the ` Milkwhite Maiden , ' the child of a mere shepherd .
So she hated the girl with all her heart , and only bided her time to do her ill .
But she could do nothing as long as the emperor remained with his wife night and day , and she began to wonder what she could do to get him away from her .
At last , when everything else had failed , she managed to make her brother , who was king of the neighbouring country , declare war against the emperor , and besiege some of the frontier towns with a large army .
This time her scheme was successful .
The young emperor sprang up in wrath the moment he heard the news , and vowed that nothing , not even his wife , should hinder his giving them battle .
And hastily assembling whatever soldiers happened to be at hand he set off at once to meet the enemy .
The other king had not reckoned on the swiftness of his movements , and was not ready to receive him .
The emperor fell on him when he was off his guard , and routed his army completely .
Then when victory was won , and the terms of peace hastily drawn up , he rode home as fast as his horse would carry him , and reached the palace on the third day .
But early that morning , when the stars were growing pale in the sky , two little boys with golden hair and stars on their foreheads were born to Laptitza .
And the stepmother , who was watching , took them away , and dug a hole in the corner of the palace , under the windows of the emperor , and put them in it , while in their stead she placed two little puppies .
The emperor came into the palace , and when they told him the news he went straight to Laptitza's room .
No words were needed ; he saw with his own eyes that Laptitza had not kept the promise she had made at the strawberry beds , and , though it nearly broke his heart , he must give orders for her punishment .
So he went out sadly and told his guards that the empress was to be buried in the earth up to her neck , so that everyone might know what would happen to those who dared to deceive the emperor .
Not many days after , the stepmother's wish was fulfilled .
The emperor took her daughter to wife , and again the rejoicings lasted for three days and three nights .
Let us now see what happened to the two little boys .
The poor little babies had found no rest even in their graves .
In the place where they had been buried there sprang up two beautiful young aspens , and the stepmother , who hated the sight of the trees , which reminded her of her crime , gave orders that they should be uprooted .
But the emperor heard of it , and forbade the trees to be touched , saying , ` Let them alone ; I like to see them there !
They are the finest aspens I have ever beheld ! '
And the aspens grew as no aspens had ever grown before .
In each day they added a year's growth , and each night they added a year's growth , and at dawn , when the stars faded out of the sky , they grew three years ' growth in the twinkling of an eye , and their boughs swept across the palace windows .
And when the wind moved them softly , the emperor would sit and listen to them all the day long .
The stepmother knew what it all meant , and her mind never ceased from trying to invent some way of destroying the trees .
It was not an easy thing , but a woman's will can press milk out of a stone , and her cunning will overcome heroes .
What craft will not do soft words may attain , and if these do not succeed there still remains the resource of tears .
One morning the empress sat on the edge of her husband's bed , and began to coax him with all sorts of pretty ways .
It was some time before the bait took , but at length -- even emperors are only men !
` Well , well , ' he said at last , ` have your way and cut down the trees ; but out of one they shall make a bed for me , and out of the other , one for you ! '
And with this the empress was forced to be content .
The aspens were cut down next morning , and before night the new bed had been placed in the emperor's room .
Now when the emperor lay down in it he seemed as if he had grown a hundred times heavier than usual , yet he felt a kind of calm that was quite new to him .
But the empress felt as if she was lying on thorns and nettles , and could not close her eyes .
When the emperor was fast asleep , the bed began to crack loudly , and to the empress each crack had a meaning .
She felt as if she were listening to a language which no one but herself could understand .
` Is it too heavy for you , little brother ? '
asked one of the beds .
` Oh , no , it is not heavy at all , ' answered the bed in which the emperor was sleeping . '
I feel nothing but joy now that my beloved father rests over me . '
` It is very heavy for me ! '
said the other bed , ` for on me lies an evil soul . '
And so they talked on till the morning , the empress listening all the while .
By daybreak the empress had determined how to get rid of the beds .
She would have two others made exactly like them , and when the emperor had gone hunting they should be placed in his room .
This was done and the aspen beds were burnt in a large fire , till only a little heap of ashes was left .
Yet while they were burning the empress seemed to hear the same words , which she alone could understand .
Then she stooped and gathered up the ashes , and scattered them to the four winds , so that they might blow over fresh lands and fresh seas , and nothing remain of them .
But she had not seen that where the fire burnt brightest two sparks flew up , and , after floating in the air for a few moments , fell down into the great river that flows through the heart of the country .
Here the sparks had turned into two little fishes with golden scales , and one was so exactly like the other that everyone could tell at the first glance that they must be twins .
Early one morning the emperor's fishermen went down to the river to get some fish for their master's breakfast , and cast their nets into the stream .
As the last star twinkled out of the sky they drew them in , and among the multitude of fishes lay two with scales of gold , such as no man had ever looked on .
They all gathered round and wondered , and after some talk they decided that they would take the little fishes alive as they were , and give them as a present to the emperor .
` Do not take us there , for that is whence we came , and yonder lies our destruction , ' said one of the fishes .
` But what are we to do with you ? '
asked the fisherman .
` Go and collect all the dew that lies on the leaves , and let us swim in it .
Then lay us in the sun , and do not come near us till the sun's rays shall have dried off the dew , ' answered the other fish .
The fisherman did as they told him -- gathered the dew from the leaves and let them swim in it , then put them to lie in the sun till the dew should be all dried up .
And when he came back , what do you think he saw ?
Why , two boys , two beautiful young princes , with hair as golden as the stars on their foreheads , and each so like the other , that at the first glance every one would have known them for twins .
The boys grew fast .
In every day they grew a year's growth , and in every night another year's growth , but at dawn , when the stars were fading , they grew three years ' growth in the twinkling of an eye .
And they grew in other things besides height , too .
Thrice in age , and thrice in wisdom , and thrice in knowledge .
And when three days and three nights had passed they were twelve years in age , twenty-four in strength , and thirty-six in wisdom .
` Now take us to our father , ' said they .
So the fisherman gave them each a lambskin cap which half covered their faces , and completely hid their golden hair and the stars on their foreheads , and led them to the court .
By the time they arrived there it was midday , and the fisherman and his charges went up to an official who was standing about .
` We wish to speak with the emperor , ' said one of the boys .
` You must wait until he has finished his dinner , ' replied the porter .
` No , while he is eating it , ' said the second boy , stepping across the threshold .
The attendants all ran forward to thrust such impudent youngsters outside the palace , but the boys slipped through their fingers like quicksilver , and entered a large hall , where the emperor was dining , surrounded by his whole court .
` We desire to enter , ' said one of the princes sharply to a servant who stood near the door .
` That is quite impossible , ' replied the servant .
` Is it ?
let us see ! '
said the second prince , pushing the servants to right and left .
But the servants were many , and the princes only two .
There was the noise of a struggle , which reached the emperor's ears .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he angrily .
The princes stopped at the sound of their father's voice .
` Two boys who want to force their way in , ' replied one of the servants , approaching the emperor .
` To FORCE their way in ?
Who dares to use force in my palace ?
What boys are they ? '
said the emperor all in one breath .
` We know not , O mighty emperor , ' answered the servant , ` but they must surely be akin to you , for they have the strength of lions , and have scattered the guards at the gate .
And they are as proud as they are strong , for they will not take their caps from their heads . '
The emperor , as he listened , grew red with anger .
` Thrust them out , ' cried he .
` Set the dogs after them . '
` Leave us alone , and we will go quietly , ' said the princes , and stepped backwards , weeping silently at the harsh words .
They had almost reached the gates when a servant ran up to them .
` The emperor commands you to return , ' panted he : ` the empress wishes to see you . '
The princes thought a moment : then they went back the way they had come , and walked straight up to the emperor , their caps still on their heads .
He sat at the top of a long table covered with flowers and filled with guests .
And beside him sat the empress , supported by twelve cushions .
When the princes entered one of the cushions fell down , and there remained only eleven .
` Take off your caps , ' said one of the courtiers . '
A covered head is among men a sign of honour .
We wish to seem what we are . '
` Never mind , ' said the emperor , whose anger had dropped before the silvery tones of the boy's voice .
` Stay as you are , but tell me WHO you are !
Where do you come from , and what do you want ? '
` We are twins , two shoots from one stem , which has been broken , and half lies in the ground and half sits at the head of this table .
We have travelled a long way , we have spoken in the rustle of the wind , have whispered in the wood , we have sung in the waters , but now we wish to tell you a story which you know without knowing it , in the speech of men . '
And a second cushion fell down .
` Let them take their silliness home , ' said the empress .
` Oh , no , let them go on , ' said the emperor .
` You wished to see them , but I wish to hear them .
Go on , boys , sing me the story . '
The empress was silent , but the princes began to sing the story of their lives .
` There was once an emperor , ' began they , and the third cushion fell down .
When they reached the warlike expedition of the emperor three of the cushions fell down at once .
And when the tale was finished there were no more cushions under the empress , but the moment that they lifted their caps , and showed their golden hair and the golden stars , the eyes of the emperor and of all his guests were bent on them , and they could hardly bear the power of so many glances .
And there happened in the end what should have happened in the beginning .
Laptitza sat next her husband at the top of the table .
The stepmother's daughter became the meanest sewing maid in the palace , the stepmother was tied to a wild horse , and every one knew and has never forgotten that whoever has a mind turned to wickedness is sure to end badly .
Once upon a time there was a woman who had three sons .
Though they were peasants they were well off , for the soil on which they lived was fruitful , and yielded rich crops .
One day they all three told their mother they meant to get married .
To which their mother replied : ` Do as you like , but see that you choose good housewives , who will look carefully after your affairs ; and , to make certain of this , take with you these three skeins of flax , and give it to them to spin .
Whoever spins the best will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
Now the two eldest sons had already chosen their wives ; so they took the flax from their mother , and carried it off with them , to have it spun as she had said .
But the youngest son was puzzled what to do with his skein , as he knew no girl , never having spoken to any , to whom he could give it to be spun .
He wandered hither and thither , asking the girls that he met if they would undertake the task for him , but at the sight of the flax they laughed in his face and mocked at him .
Then in despair he left their villages , and went out into the country , and , seating himself on the bank of a pond began to cry bitterly .
Suddenly there was a noise close beside him , and a frog jumped out of the water on to the bank and asked him why he was crying .
The youth told her of his trouble , and how his brothers would bring home linen spun for them by their promised wives , but that no one would spin his thread .
Then the frog answered : ` Do not weep on that account ; give me the thread , and I will spin it for you . '
And , having said this , she took it out of his hand , and flopped back into the water , and the youth went back , not knowing what would happen next .
In a short time the two elder brothers came home , and their mother asked to see the linen which had been woven out of the skeins of flax she had given them .
They all three left the room ; and in a few minutes the two eldest returned , bringing with them the linen that had been spun by their chosen wives .
But the youngest brother was greatly troubled , for he had nothing to show for the skein of flax that had been given to him .
Sadly he betook himself to the pond , and sitting down on the bank , began to weep .
Flop !
and the frog appeared out of the water close beside him .
` Take this , ' she said ; ` here is the linen that I have spun for you . '
You may imagine how delighted the youth was .
She put the linen into his hands , and he took it straight back to his mother , who was so pleased with it that she declared she had never seen linen so beautifully spun , and that it was far finer and whiter than the webs that the two elder brothers had brought home .
Then she turned to her sons and said : ` But this is not enough , my sons , I must have another proof as to what sort of wives you have chosen .
In the house there are three puppies .
Each of you take one , and give it to the woman whom you mean to bring home as your wife .
She must train it and bring it up .
Whichever dog turns out the best , its mistress will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
So the young men set out on their different ways , each taking a puppy with him .
The youngest , not knowing where to go , returned to the pond , sat down once more on the bank , and began to weep .
Flop !
and close beside him , he saw the frog .
` Why are you weeping ? '
she said .
Then he told her his difficulty , and that he did not know to whom he should take the puppy .
` Give it to me , ' she said , ` and I will bring it up for you . '
And , seeing that the youth hesitated , she took the little creature out of his arms , and disappeared with it into the pond .
The weeks and months passed , till one day the mother said she would like to see how the dogs had been trained by her future daughters-in-law .
The two eldest sons departed , and returned shortly , leading with them two great mastiffs , who growled so fiercely , and looked so savage , that the mere sight of them made the mother tremble with fear .
The youngest son , as was his custom , went to the pond , and called on the frog to come to his rescue .
In a minute she was at his side , bringing with her the most lovely little dog , which she put into his arms .
It sat up and begged with its paws , and went through the prettiest tricks , and was almost human in the way it understood and did what it was told .
In high spirits the youth carried it off to his mother .
As soon as she saw it , she exclaimed : ` This is the most beautiful little dog I have ever seen .
You are indeed fortunate , my son ; you have won a pearl of a wife . '
Then , turning to the others , she said : ` Here are three shirts ; take them to your chosen wives .
Whoever sews the best will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
So the young men set out once more ; and again , this time , the work of the frog was much the best and the neatest .
This time the mother said : ` Now that I am content with the tests I gave , I want you to go and fetch home your brides , and I will prepare the wedding-feast . '
You may imagine what the youngest brother felt on hearing these words .
Whence was he to fetch a bride ?
Would the frog be able to help him in this new difficulty ?
With bowed head , and feeling very sad , he sat down on the edge of the pond .
Flop !
and once more the faithful frog was beside him .
` What is troubling you so much ? '
she asked him , and then the youth told her everything .
` Will you take me for a wife ? '
she asked .
` What should I do with you as a wife , ' he replied , wondering at her strange proposal .
` Once more , will you have me or will you not ? '
she said . '
I will neither have you , nor will I refuse you , ' said he .
At this the frog disappeared ; and the next minute the youth beheld a lovely little chariot , drawn by two tiny ponies , standing on the road .
The frog was holding the carriage door open for him to step in .
` Come with me , ' she said .
And he got up and followed her into the chariot .
As they drove along the road they met three witches ; the first of them was blind , the second was hunchbacked , and the third had a large thorn in her throat .
When the three witches beheld the chariot , with the frog seated pompously among the cushions , they broke into such fits of laughter that the eyelids of the blind one burst open , and she recovered her sight ; the hunchback rolled about on the ground in merriment till her back became straight , and in a roar of laughter the thorn fell out of the throat of the third witch .
Their first thought was to reward the frog , who had unconsciously been the means of curing them of their misfortunes .
The first witch waved her magic wand over the frog , and changed her into the loveliest girl that had ever been seen .
The second witch waved the wand over the tiny chariot and ponies , and they were turned into a beautiful large carriage with prancing horses , and a coachman on the seat .
The third witch gave the girl a magic purse , filled with money .
Having done this , the witches disappeared , and the youth with his lovely bride drove to his mother's home .
Great was the delight of the mother at her youngest son's good fortune .
A beautiful house was built for them ; she was the favourite daughter-in-law ; everything went well with them , and they lived happily ever after .
