The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were having a good-night game of tag down on the Green Meadows .
They were having such a jolly time while they waited for Old Mother West Wind and her big bag to take them to their home behind the Purple Hills .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had already put his nightcap on .
Black shadows crept softly out from the Purple Hills onto the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes grew sleepy , almost too sleepy to play , for Old Mother West Wind was very , very late .
Farther and farther and farther out onto the Green Meadows crept the black shadows .
Suddenly one seemed to separate from the others .
Softly , oh so softly , yet swiftly , it floated over towards the Merry Little Breezes .
One of them happened to look up and saw it coming .
It was the same Little Breeze who one time stayed out all night .
When he looked up and saw this seeming shadow moving so swiftly he knew that it was no shadow at all .
`` Here comes Hooty the Owl , '' cried the Little Breeze .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes stopped their game of tag to look at Hooty the Owl .
It is seldom they have a chance to see him , for usually Hooty the Owl does not come out on the Green Meadows until after the Merry Little Breezes are snugly tucked in bed behind the Purple Hills .
`` Perhaps Hooty the Owl will tell us why it is that he never comes out to play with us , '' said one of the Little Breezes .
But just as Hooty the Owl floated over to them up came Old Mother West Wind , and she was in a great hurry , for she was late , and she was tired .
She had had a busy day , a very busy day indeed , hunting for a rain cloud which had gone astray .
So now she just opened her big bag and tumbled all the Merry Little Breezes into it as fast as she could without giving them so much as a chance to say `` Good evening '' to Hooty the Owl .
Then she took them off home behind the Purple Hills .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes were disappointed , very much disappointed .
But they were also very sleepy , for they had played hard all day .
`` Never mind , '' said one of them , drowsily , `` to-morrow we'll ask Great-Grandfather Frog why it is that Hooty the Owl never comes out to play with us on the Green Meadows .
He'll know . ''
The next morning Old Mother West Wind was late in coming down from the Purple Hills .
When she finally did turn the Merry Little Breezes out of her big bag onto the Green Meadows jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was already quite high in the blue sky .
The Merry Little Breezes waited just long enough to say `` Good-by '' to Old Mother West Wind , and then started a mad race to see who could reach the Smiling Pool first .
There they found Great-Grandfather Frog sitting on his big green lily pad as usual .
He was very contented with the world , was Grandfather Frog , for fat green flies had been more foolish than usual that morning and already he had all that he could safely tuck inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Will you tell us why it is that Hooty the Owl never comes out to play with us on the Green Meadows ? ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Great-Grandfather Frog , gruffly , `` how should I know ? ''
You see , Grandfather Frog likes to be teased a little .
`` Oh , but you do know , for you are so old and so very wise , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes all together .
Grandfather Frog smiled , for he likes to be thought very wise , and also he was feeling very good , very good indeed that morning .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` If you'll sit perfectly still I'll tell you what I know about Hooty the Owl .
But remember , you must sit perfectly still , per-fect-ly still . ''
The Merry Little Breezes sighed , for it is the hardest thing in the world for them to keep perfectly still unless they are asleep .
But they promised that they would , and when they had settled down , each one in the heart of a great white water lily , Grandfather Frog began : `` Once upon a time , when the world was young , Hooty the Owl's grandfather a thousand times removed used to fly about in daylight with the other birds .
He was very big and very strong and very fierce , was Mr. Owl .
He had great big claws and a hooked bill , just as Hooty the Owl has now , and he was afraid of nothing and nobody .
`` Now when people are very big and very strong and afraid of nothing and nobody they are very apt to care for nothing and nobody but themselves .
So it was with Mr. Owl .
Whatever he saw that he wanted he took , no matter to whom it belonged , for there was no one to stop him .
`` As I have already told you , Mr. Owl was very big and very strong and very fierce and he was a very great glutton .
It took a great many little birds and little animals to satisfy his appetite .
But he didn't stop there !
No , Sir , he didn't stop there !
He used to kill harmless little meadow people just for the fun of killing , and because he could .
Every day he grew more savage .
Finally no one smaller than himself dared stir on the Green Meadows when he was around .
The little birds no longer sang .
The Fieldmice children no longer played among the meadow grasses .
Those were sad days , very sad days indeed on the Green Meadows , '' said Grandfather Frog , with a sigh .
`` At last old Mother Nature came to visit the Green Meadows and she soon saw what a terrible state things were in .
No one came to meet her , for you see no one dared to show himself for fear of fierce old Mr. Owl .
`` Now I have told you that Mr. Owl was afraid of nothing and nobody , but this is not quite true , for he was afraid , very much afraid of old Mother Nature .
When he saw her coming he was sitting on top of a tall dead stump and he at once tried to look very meek and very innocent .
`` Old Mother Nature wasted no time .
` Where are all my little meadow people and why do they not come to give me greeting ? '
demanded old Mother Nature of Mr. Owl .
`` Mr. Owl bowed very low .
` I 'm sure I don't know .
I think they must all be taking a nap , ' said he .
`` Now you can't fool old Mother Nature and it's of no use to try .
No , Sir , you can't fool old Mother Nature .
She just looked at Mr. Owl and she looked at the feathers and fur scattered about the foot of the dead stump .
Mr. Owl stood first on one foot and then on the other .
He tried to look old Mother Nature in the face , but he couldn't .
You see , Mr. Owl had a guilty conscience and a guilty conscience never looks anyone straight in the face .
He did wish that Mother Nature would say something , did Mr. Owl .
But she didn't .
She just looked and looked and looked and looked straight at Mr. Owl .
The longer she looked the uneasier he got and the faster he shifted from one foot to the other .
Finally he shifted so fast that he seemed to be dancing on top of the old stump .
`` Gradually , a few at a time , the little meadow people crept out from their hiding places and formed a great circle around the old dead stump .
With old Mother Nature there they felt sure that no harm could come to them .
Then they began to laugh at the funny sight of fierce old Mr. Owl hopping from one foot to the other on top of the old dead stump .
It was the first laugh on the Green Meadows for a long , long , long time .
`` Of course Mr. Owl saw them laughing at him , but he could think of nothing but the sharp eyes of old Mother Nature boring straight through him , and he danced faster than ever .
The faster he danced the funnier he looked , and the funnier he looked the harder the little meadow people laughed .
`` Finally old Mother Nature slowly raised a hand and pointed a long forefinger at Mr. Owl .
All the little meadow people stopped laughing to hear what she would say . ''
` Mr. Owl , ' she began , ' I know and you know why none of my little meadow people were here to give me greeting .
And this shall be your punishment : From now on your eyes shall become so tender that they can not stand the light of day , so that hereafter you shall fly about only after round , red Mr. Sun has gone to bed behind the Purple Hills .
No more shall my little people who play on the Green Meadows all the day long have cause to fear you , for no more shall you see to do them harm . '
`` When she ceased speaking all the little meadow people gave a great shout , for they knew that it would be even as Mother Nature had said .
Then began such a frolic as the Green Meadows had not known for many a long day .
`` But Mr. Owl flew slowly and with difficulty over to the darkest part of the deep wood , for the light hurt his eyes dreadfully and he could hardly see .
And as he flew the little birds flew around him in a great cloud and plucked out his feathers and tormented him for he could not see to harm them . ''
Grandfather Frog paused and looked dreamily across the Smiling Pool .
Suddenly he opened his big mouth and then closed it with a snap .
One more foolish green fly had disappeared inside the white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog , `` those were sad days , sad days indeed for Mr. Owl .
He couldn't hunt for his meals by day , for the light blinded him .
At night he could see but little in the darkness .
So he got little to eat and he grew thinner and thinner and thinner until he was but a shadow of his former self .
He was always hungry , was Mr. Owl , always hungry .
No one was afraid of him now , for it was the easiest thing in the world to keep out of his way .
`` At last old Mother Nature came again to visit the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Far , far in the darkest part of the deep wood she found Mr. Owl .
When she saw how very thin and how very , very miserable he was her heart was moved to pity , for old Mother Nature loves all her subjects , even the worst of them .
All the fierceness was gone from Mr. Owl .
He was so weak that he just sat huddled in the thickest part of the great pine .
You see he had been able to catch very little to eat . ''
` Mr. Owl , ' said old Mother Nature gently , ` you now know something of the misery and the suffering which you have caused others , and I think you have been punished enough .
No more may you fly abroad over the Green Meadows while the day is bright , for still is the fear of you in the hearts of all my little meadow people , but hereafter you shall not find it so difficult to get enough to eat .
Your eyes shall grow big , bigger than the eyes of any other bird , so that you shall be able to see in the dusk and even in the dark .
Your ears shall grow large , larger than the ears of any of the little forest or meadow people , so that you can hear the very least sound .
Your feathers shall become as soft as down , so that when you fly none shall hear you . '
`` And from that day it was even so .
Mr. Owl's eyes grew big and bigger until he could see as well in the dusk as he used to see in the full light of day .
His ears grew large and larger until his hearing became so keen that he could hear the least rustle , even at a long distance .
And when he flew he made no sound , but floated like a great shadow .
`` The little meadow people no longer feared him by day , but when the shadows began to creep out from the Purple Hills each night and they heard his voice ` Whoo-too-whoo-hoo-hoo ' they felt all the old fear of him .
If they were wise they did not stir , but if they were foolish and so much as shivered Mr. Owl was sure to hear them and silently pounce upon them .
`` So once more Mr. Owl grew strong and fierce .
But only at night had anyone cause to fear him , and then only the foolish and timid .
`` And now you know , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , `` why it is that Hooty the Owl never comes out to play with you on the Green Meadows , and why his eyes are so big and his ears so large . ''
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes , springing up from the white water lilies and stretching themselves .
`` We'll bring you the first foolish green fly we can find . ''
Then away they rushed to hunt for it .
