Lilian Mitchell turned into the dry-goods store on Randall Street , just as Esther Miller and Ella Taylor came out .
They responded coldly to her greeting and exchanged significant glances as they walked away .
Lilian's pale face crimsoned .
She was a tall , slender girl of about seventeen , and dressed in mourning .
These girls had been her close friends once .
But that was before the Mitchells had lost their money .
Since then Lilian had been cut by many of her old chums and she felt it keenly .
The clerks in the store were busy and Lilian sat down to wait her turn .
Near to her two ladies were also waiting and chatting .
`` Helen wants me to let her have a birthday party , '' Mrs. Saunders was saying wearily .
`` She has been promised it so long and I hate to disappoint the child , but our girl left last week , and I can not possibly make all the cakes and things myself .
I haven't the time or strength , so Helen must do without her party . ''
`` Talking of girls , '' said Mrs. Reeves impatiently , `` I am almost discouraged .
It is so hard to get a good all-round one .
The last one I had was so saucy I had to discharge her , and the one I have now can not make decent bread .
I never had good luck with bread myself either . ''
`` That is Mrs. Porter's great grievance too .
It is no light task to bake bread for all those boarders .
Have you made your jelly yet ? ''
`` No .
Maria can not make it , she says , and I detest messing with jelly .
But I really must see to it soon . ''
At this point a saleswoman came up to Lilian , who made her small purchases and went out .
`` There goes Lilian Mitchell , '' said Mrs. Reeves in an undertone .
`` She looks very pale .
They say they are dreadfully poor since Henry Mitchell died .
His affairs were in a bad condition , I am told . ''
`` I am sorry for Mrs. Mitchell , '' responded Mrs. Saunders .
`` She is such a sweet woman .
Lilian will have to do something , I suppose , and there is so little chance for a girl here . ''
Lilian , walking down the street , was wearily turning over in her mind the problems of her young existence .
Her father had died the preceding spring .
He had been a supposedly prosperous merchant ; the Mitchells had always lived well , and Lilian was a petted and only child .
Then came the shock of Henry Mitchell's sudden death and of financial ruin .
His affairs were found to be hopelessly involved ; when all the debts were paid there was left only the merest pittance -- barely enough for house-rent -- for Lilian and her mother to live upon .
They had moved into a tiny cottage in an unfashionable locality , and during the summer Lilian had tried hard to think of something to do .
Mrs. Mitchell was a delicate woman , and the burden of their situation fell on Lilian's young shoulders .
There seemed to be no place for her .
She could not teach and had no particular talent in any line .
There was no opening for her in Willington , which was a rather sleepy little place , and Lilian was almost in despair .
`` There really doesn't seem to be any real place in the world for me , Mother , '' she said rather dolefully at the supper table .
`` I've no talent at all ; it is dreadful to have been born without one .
And yet I must do something , and do it soon . ''
And Lilian , after she had washed up the tea dishes , went upstairs and had a good cry .
But the darkest hour , so the proverb goes , is just before the dawn , and after Lilian had had her cry out and was sitting at her window in the dusk , watching a thin new moon shining over the trees down the street , her inspiration came to her .
A minute later she whirled into the tiny sitting-room where her mother was sewing .
`` Mother , our fortune is made !
I have an idea ! ''
`` Don't lose it , then , '' said Mrs. Mitchell with a smile .
`` What is it , my dear ? ''
Lilian sobered herself , sat down by her mother's side , and proceeded to recount the conversation she had heard in the store that afternoon .
`` Now , Mother , this is where my brilliant idea comes in .
You have often told me I am a born cook and I always have good luck .
Now , tomorrow morning I shall go to Mrs. Saunders and offer to furnish all the good things for Helen's birthday party , and then I'll ask Mrs. Reeves and Mrs. Porter if I may make their bread for them .
That will do for a beginning , I like cooking , you know , and I believe that in time I can work up a good business . ''
`` It seems to be a good idea , '' said Mrs. Mitchell thoughtfully , `` and I am willing that you should try .
But have you thought it all out carefully ?
There will be many difficulties . ''
`` I know .
I don't expect smooth sailing right along , and perhaps I'll fail altogether ; but somehow I don't believe I will . ''
`` A great many of your old friends will think -- '' `` Oh , yes ; I know that too , but I am not going to mind it , Mother .
I don't think there is any disgrace in working for my living .
I 'm going to do my best and not care what people say . ''
Early next morning Lilian started out .
She had carefully thought over the details of her small venture , considered ways and means , and decided on the most advisable course .
She would not attempt too much , and she felt sure of success .
To secure competent servants was one of the problems of Willington people .
At Drayton , a large neighbouring town , were several factories , and into these all the working girls from Willington had crowded , leaving very few who were willing to go out to service .
Many of those who did were poor cooks , and Lilian shrewdly suspected that many a harassed housekeeper in the village would be glad to avail herself of the new enterprise .
Lilian was , as she had said of herself , `` a born cook . ''
This was her capital , and she meant to make the most of it .
Mrs. Saunders listened to her businesslike details with surprise and delight .
`` It is the very thing , '' she said .
`` Helen is so eager for that party , but I could not undertake it myself .
Her birthday is Friday .
Can you have everything ready by then ? ''
`` Yes , I think so , '' said Lilian briskly , producing her notebook .
`` Please give me the list of what you want and I will do my best . ''
From Mrs. Saunders she went to Mrs. Reeves and found a customer as soon as she had told the reason of her call .
`` I'll furnish all the bread and rolls you need , '' she said , `` and they will be good , too .
Now , about your jelly .
I can make good jelly , and I'll be very glad to make yours . ''
When she left , Lilian had an order for two dozen glasses of apple jelly , as well as a standing one for bread and rolls .
Mrs. Porter was next visited and grasped eagerly at the opportunity .
`` I know your bread will be good , '' she said , `` and you may count on me as a regular customer . ''
Lilian thought she had enough on hand for a first attempt and went home satisfied .
On her way she called at the grocery store with an order that surprised Mr. Hooper .
When she told him of her plan he opened his eyes .
`` I must tell my wife about that .
She isn't strong and she doesn't like cooking . ''
After dinner Lilian went to work , enveloped in a big apron , and whipped eggs , stoned raisins , stirred , concocted , and baked until dark .
When bedtime came she was so tired that she could hardly crawl upstairs ; but she felt happy too , for the day had been a successful one .
And so also were the days and weeks and months that followed .
It was hard and constant work , but it brought its reward .
Lilian had not promised more than she could perform , and her customers were satisfied .
In a short time she found herself with a regular and growing business on her hands , for new customers were gradually added and always came to stay .
People who gave parties found it very convenient to follow Mrs. Saunders's example and order their supplies from Lilian .
She had a very busy winter and , of course , it was not all plain sailing .
She had many difficulties to contend with .
Sometimes days came on which everything seemed to go wrong -- when the stove smoked or the oven wouldn't heat properly , when cakes fell flat and bread was sour and pies behaved as only totally depraved pies can , when she burned her fingers and felt like giving up in despair .
Then , again , she found herself cut by several of her old acquaintances .
But she was too sensible to worry much over this .
The friends really worth having were still hers , her mother's face had lost its look of care , and her business was prospering .
She was hopeful and wide awake , kept her wits about her and looked out for hints , and learned to laugh over her failures .
During the winter she and her mother had managed to do most of the work themselves , hiring little Mary Robinson next door on especially busy days , and now and then calling in the assistance of Jimmy Bowen and his hand sled to carry orders to customers .
But when spring came Lilian prepared to open up her summer campaign on a much larger scale .
Mary Robinson was hired for the season , and John Perkins was engaged to act as carrier with his express wagon .
A summer kitchen was boarded in in the backyard , and a new range bought ; Lilian began operations with a striking advertisement in the Willington News and an attractive circular sent around to all her patrons .
Picnics and summer weddings were frequent .
In bread and rolls her trade was brisk and constant .
She also took orders for pickles , preserves , and jellies , and this became such a flourishing branch that a second assistant had to be hired .
It was a cardinal rule with Lilian never to send out any article that was not up to her standard .
She bore the loss of her failures , and sometimes stayed up half of the night to fill an order on time .
`` Prompt and perfect '' was her motto .
The long hot summer days were very trying , and sometimes she got very tired of it all .
But when on the anniversary of her first venture she made up her accounts she was well pleased .
To be sure , she had not made a fortune ; but she had paid all their expenses , had a hundred dollars clear , and had laid the solid foundations of a profitable business .
`` Mother , '' she said jubilantly , as she wiped a dab of flour from her nose and proceeded to concoct the icing for Blanche Remington's wedding cake , `` don't you think my business venture has been a decided success ? ''
Mrs. Mitchell surveyed her busy daughter with a motherly smile .
`` Yes , I think it has , '' she said .
