Ernest Duncan swung himself off the platform of David White's store and walked whistling up the street .
Life seemed good to Ernest just then .
Mr. White had given him a rise in salary that day , and had told him that he was satisfied with him .
Mr. White was not easy to please in the matter of clerks , and it had been with fear and trembling that Ernest had gone into his store six months before .
He had thought himself fortunate to secure such a chance .
His father had died the preceding year , leaving nothing in the way of worldly goods except the house he had lived in .
For several years before his death he had been unable to do much work , and the finances of the little family had dwindled steadily .
After his father's death Ernest , who had been going to school and expecting to go to college , found that he must go to work at once instead to support himself and his mother .
If George Duncan had not left much of worldly wealth behind him , he at least bequeathed to his son the interest of a fine , upright character and a reputation for honesty and integrity .
None knew this better than David White , and it was on this account that he took Ernest as his clerk , over the heads of several other applicants who seemed to have a stronger `` pull . ''
`` I don't know anything about you , Ernest , '' he said bluntly .
`` You 're only sixteen , and you may not have an ounce of real grit or worth in you .
But it will be a queer thing if your father's son hasn't .
I knew him all his life .
A better man never lived nor , before his accident , a smarter one .
I'll give his son a chance , anyhow .
If you take after your dad you'll get on all right . ''
Ernest had not been in the store very long before Mr. White concluded , with a gratified chuckle , that he did take after his father .
He was hard-working , conscientious , and obliging .
Customers of all sorts , from the rough fishermen who came up from the harbour to the old Irishwomen from the back country roads , liked him .
Mr. White was satisfied .
He was beginning to grow old .
This lad had the makings of a good partner in him by and by .
No hurry ; he must serves long apprenticeship first and prove his mettle ; no use spoiling him by hinting at future partnerships before need was .
That would all come in due time .
David White was a shrewd man .
Ernest was unconscious of his employer's plans regarding him ; but he knew that he stood well with him and , much to his surprise , he found that he liked the work , and was beginning to take a personal interest and pleasure in the store .
Hence , he went home to tea on this particular afternoon with buoyant step and smiling eyes .
It was a good world , and he was glad to be alive in it , glad to have work to do and a dear little mother to work for .
Most of the folks who met him smiled in friendly fashion at the bright-eyed , frank-faced lad .
Only old Jacob Patterson scowled grimly as he passed him , emitting merely a surly grunt in response to Ernest's greeting .
But then , old Jacob Patterson was noted as much for his surliness as for his miserliness .
Nobody had ever heard him speak pleasantly to anyone ; therefore his unfriendliness did not at all dash Ernest's high spirits .
`` I 'm sorry for him , '' the lad thought .
`` He has no interest in life save accumulating money .
He has no other pleasure or affection or ambition .
When he dies I don't suppose a single regret will follow him .
Father died a poor man , but what love and respect went with him to his grave -- aye , and beyond it .
Jacob Patterson , I 'm sorry for you .
You have chosen the poorer part , and you are a poor man in spite of your thousands . ''
Ernest and his mother lived up on the hill , at the end of the straggling village street .
The house was a small , old-fashioned one , painted white , set in the middle of a small but beautiful lawn .
George Duncan , during the last rather helpless years of his life , had devoted himself to the cultivation of flowers , shrubs , and trees and , as a result , his lawn was the prettiest in Conway .
Ernest worked hard in his spare moments to keep it looking as well as in his father's lifetime , for he loved his little home dearly , and was proud of its beauty .
He ran gaily into the sitting-room .
`` Tea ready , lady mother ?
I 'm hungry as a wolf .
Good news gives one an appetite .
Mr. White has raised my salary a couple of dollars per week .
We must celebrate the event somehow this evening .
What do you say to a sail on the river and an ice cream at Taylor's afterwards ?
When a little woman can't outlive her schoolgirl hankering for ice cream -- why , Mother , what's the matter ?
Mother , dear ! ''
Mrs. Duncan had been standing before the window with her back to the room when Ernest entered .
When she turned he saw that she had been crying .
`` Oh , Ernest , '' she said brokenly , `` Jacob Patterson has just been here -- and he says -- he says -- '' `` What has that old miser been saying to trouble you ? ''
demanded Ernest angrily , taking her hands in his .
`` He says he holds your father's promissory note for nine hundred dollars , overdue for several years , '' answered Mrs. Duncan .
`` Yes -- and he showed me the note , Ernest . ''
`` Father's promissory note for nine hundred ! ''
exclaimed Ernest in bewilderment .
`` But Father paid that note to James Patterson five years ago , Mother -- just before his accident .
Didn't you tell me he did ? ''
`` Yes , he did , '' said Mrs. Duncan , `` but -- '' `` Then where is it ? ''
interrupted Ernest .
`` Father would keep the receipted note , of course .
We must look among his papers . ''
`` You won't find it there , Ernest .
We -- we don't know where the note is .
It -- it was lost . ''
`` Lost !
That is unfortunate .
But you say that Jacob Patterson showed you a promissory note of Father's still in existence ?
How can that be ?
It can't possibly be the note he paid .
And there couldn't have been another note we knew nothing of ? ''
`` I understand how this note came to be in Jacob Patterson's possession , '' said Mrs. Duncan more firmly , `` but he laughed in my face when I told him .
I must tell you the whole story , Ernest .
But sit down and get your tea first . ''
`` I haven't any appetite for tea now , Mother , '' said Ernest soberly .
`` Let me hear the whole truth about the matter . ''
`` Seven years ago your father gave his note to old James Patterson , Jacob's brother , '' said Mrs. Duncan .
`` It was for nine hundred dollars .
Two years afterwards the note fell due and he paid James Patterson the full amount with interest .
I remember the day well .
I have only too good reason to .
He went up to the Patterson place in the afternoon with the money .
It was a very hot day .
James Patterson receipted the note and gave it to your father .
Your father always remembered that much ; he was also sure that he had the note with him when he left the house .
He then went over to see Paul Sinclair .
A thunderstorm came up while he was on the road .
Then , as you know , Ernest , just as he turned in at Paul Sinclair's gate the lightning flash struck and stunned him .
It was weeks before he came to himself at all .
He never did come completely to himself again .
When , weeks afterwards , I thought of the note and asked him about it , we could not find it ; and , search as we did , we never found it .
Your father could never remember what he did with it when he left James Patterson's .
Neither Mr. Sinclair nor his wife could recollect seeing anything of it at the time of the accident .
James Patterson had left for California the very morning after , and he never came back .
We did not worry much about the loss of the note then ; it did not seem of much moment , and your father was not in a condition to be troubled about the matter . ''
`` But , Mother , this note that Jacob Patterson holds -- I don't understand about this . ''
`` I 'm coming to that .
I remember distinctly that on the evening when your father came home after signing the note he said that James Patterson drew up a note and he signed it , but just as he did so the old man's pet cat , which was sitting on the table , upset an ink bottle and the ink ran all over the table and stained one end of the note .
Old James Patterson was the fussiest man who ever lived , and a stickler for neatness .
` Tut , tut , ' he said , ` this won't do .
Here , I'll draw up another note and tear this blotted one up . '
He did so and your father signed it .
He always supposed James Patterson destroyed the first one , and certainly he must have intended to , for there never was an honester man .
But he must have neglected to do so for , Ernest , it was that blotted note Jacob Patterson showed me today .
He said he found it among his brother's papers .
I suppose it has been in the desk up at the Patterson place ever since James went to California .
He died last winter and Jacob is his sole heir .
Ernest , that note with the compound interest on it for seven years amounts to over eleven hundred dollars .
How can we pay it ? ''
`` I 'm afraid that this is a very serious business , Mother , '' said Ernest , rising and pacing the floor with agitated strides .
`` We shall have to pay the note if we can not find the other -- and even if we could , perhaps .
Your story of the drawing up of the second note would not be worth anything as evidence in a court of law -- and we have nothing to hope from Jacob Patterson's clemency .
No doubt he believes that he really holds Father's unpaid note .
He is not a dishonest man ; in fact , he rather prides himself on having made all his money honestly .
He will exact every penny of the debt .
The first thing to do is to have another thorough search for the lost note -- although I am afraid that it is a forlorn hope . ''
A forlorn hope it proved to be .
The note did not turn up .
Old Jacob Patterson proved obdurate .
He laughed to scorn the tale of the blotted note and , indeed , Ernest sadly admitted to himself that it was not a story anybody would be in a hurry to believe .
`` There's nothing for it but to sell our house and pay the debt , Mother , '' he said at last .
Ernest had grown old in the days that had followed Jacob Patterson's demand .
His boyish face was pale and haggard .
`` Jacob Patterson will take the case into the law courts if we don't settle at once .
Mr. White offered to lend me the money on a mortgage on the place , but I could never pay the interest out of my salary when we have nothing else to live on .
I would only get further and further behind .
I 'm not afraid of hard work , but I dare not borrow money with so little prospect of ever being able to repay it .
We must sell the place and rent that little four-roomed cottage of Mr. Percy's down by the river to live in .
Oh , Mother , it half kills me to think of your being turned out of your home like this ! ''
It was a bitter thing for Mrs. Duncan also , but for Ernest's sake she concealed her feelings and affected cheerfulness .
The house and lot were sold , Mr. White being the purchaser thereof ; and Ernest and his mother removed to the little riverside cottage with such of their household belongings as had not also to be sold to make up the required sum .
Even then , Ernest had to borrow two hundred dollars from Mr. White , and he foresaw that the repayal of this sum would cost him much self-denial and privation .
It would be necessary to cut their modest expenses down severely .
For himself Ernest did not mind , but it hurt him keenly that his mother should lack the little luxuries and comforts to which she had been accustomed .
He saw too , in spite of her efforts to hide it , that leaving her old home was a terrible blow to her .
Altogether , Ernest felt bitter and disheartened ; his step lacked spring and his face its smile .
He did his work with dogged faithfulness , but he no longer found pleasure in it .
He knew that his mother secretly pined after her lost home where she had gone as a bride , and the knowledge rendered him very unhappy .
* * * * * Paul Sinclair , his father's friend and cousin , died that winter , leaving two small children .
His wife had died the previous year .
When his business affairs came to be settled they were found to be sadly involved .
There were debts on all sides , and it was soon only too evident that nothing was left for the little boys .
They were homeless and penniless .
`` What will become of them , poor little fellows ? ''
said Mrs. Duncan pityingly .
`` We are their only relatives , Ernest .
We must give them a home at least . ''
`` Mother , how can we ! ''
exclaimed Ernest .
`` We are so poor .
It's as much as we can do to get along now , and there is that two hundred to pay Mr. White .
I 'm sorry for Danny and Frank , but I don't see how we can possibly do anything for them . ''
Mrs. Duncan sighed .
`` I know it isn't right to ask you to add to your burden , '' she said wistfully .
`` It is of you I am thinking , Mother , '' said Ernest tenderly .
`` I can't have your burden added to .
You deny yourself too much and work too hard now .
What would it be if you took the care of those children upon yourself ? ''
`` Don't think of me , Ernest , '' said Mrs. Duncan eagerly .
`` I wouldn't mind .
I 'd be glad to do anything I could for them , poor little souls .
Their father was your father's best friend , and I feel as if it were our duty to do all we can for them .
They 're such little fellows .
Who knows how they would be treated if they were taken by strangers ?
And they 'd most likely be separated , and that would be a shame .
But I leave it for you to decide , Ernest .
It is your right , for the heaviest part will fall on you . ''
Ernest did not decide at once .
For a week he thought the matter over , weighing pros and cons carefully .
To take the two Sinclair boys meant a double portion of toil and self-denial .
Had he not enough to bear now ?
But , on the other side , was it not his duty , nay , his privilege , to help the children if he could ?
In the end he said to his mother : `` We'll take the little fellows , Mother .
I'll do the best I can for them .
We'll manage a corner and a crust for them . ''
So Danny and Frank Sinclair came to the little cottage .
Frank was eight and Danny six , and they were small and lively and mischievous .
They worshipped Mrs. Duncan , and thought Ernest the finest fellow in the world .
When his birthday came around in March , the two little chaps put their heads together in a grave consultation as to what they could give him .
`` You know he gave us presents on our birthdays , '' said Frank .
`` So we must give him something . ''
`` I'll div him my pottet-knife , '' said Danny , taking the somewhat battered and loose-jointed affair from his pocket , and gazing at it affectionately .
`` I'll give him one of Papa's books , '' said Frank .
`` That pretty one with the red covers and the gold letters . ''
A few of Mr. Sinclair's books had been saved for the boys , and were stored in a little box in their room .
The book Frank referred to was an old History of the Turks , and its gay cover was probably the best of it , since its contents were of no particular merit .
On Ernest's birthday both boys gave him their offerings after breakfast .
`` Here's a pottet-knife for you , '' said Danny graciously .
`` It's a bully pottet-knife .
It'll cut real well if you hold it dust the wight way .
I'll show you . ''
`` And here's a book for you , '' said Frank .
`` It's a real pretty book , and I guess it's pretty interesting reading too .
It's all about the Turks . ''
Ernest accepted both gifts gravely , and after the children had gone out he and his mother had a hearty laugh .
`` The dear , kind-hearted little lads ! ''
said Mrs. Duncan .
`` It must have been a real sacrifice on Danny's part to give you his beloved ` pottet-knife . '
I was afraid you were going to refuse it at first , and that would have hurt his little feelings terribly .
I don't think the History of the Turks will keep you up burning the midnight oil .
I remember that book of old -- I could never forget that gorgeous cover .
Mr. Sinclair lent it to your father once , and he said it was absolute trash .
Why , Ernest , what's the matter ? ''
Ernest had been turning the book's leaves over carelessly .
Suddenly he sprang to his feet with an exclamation , his face turning white as marble .
`` Mother ! ''
he gasped , holding out a yellowed slip of paper .
`` Look !
It's the lost promissory note . ''
Mother and son looked at each other for a moment .
Then Mrs. Duncan began to laugh and cry together .
`` Your father took that book with him when he went to pay the note , '' she said .
`` He intended to return it to Mr. Sinclair .
I remember seeing the gleam of the red binding in his hand as he went out of the gate .
He must have slipped the note into it and I suppose the book has never been opened since .
Oh , Ernest -- do you think -- will Jacob Patterson -- '' `` I don't know , Mother .
I must see Mr. White about this .
Don't be too sanguine .
This doesn't prove that the note Jacob Patterson found wasn't a genuine note also , you know -- that is , I don't think it would serve as proof in law .
We'll have to leave it to his sense of justice .
If he refuses to refund the money I 'm afraid we can't compel him to do so . ''
But Jacob Patterson did not any longer refuse belief to Mrs. Patterson's story of the blotted note .
He was a harsh , miserly man , but he prided himself on his strict honesty ; he had been fairly well acquainted with his brother's business transactions , and knew that George Duncan had given only one promissory note .
`` I'll admit , ma'am , since the receipted note has turned up , that your story about the blotted one must be true , '' he said surlily .
`` I'll pay your money back .
Nobody can ever say Jacob Patterson cheated .
I took what I believed to be my due .
Since I 'm convinced it wasn't I'll hand every penny over .
Though , mind you , you couldn't make me do it by law .
It's my honesty , ma'am , it's my honesty . ''
Since Jacob Patterson was so well satisfied with the fibre of his honesty , neither Mrs. Duncan nor Ernest was disposed to quarrel with it .
Mr. White readily agreed to sell the old Duncan place back to them , and by spring they were settled again in their beloved little home .
Danny and Frank were with them , of course .
`` We can't be too good to them , Mother , '' said Ernest .
`` We really owe all our happiness to them . ''
`` Yes , but , Ernest , if you had not consented to take the homeless little lads in their time of need this wouldn't have come about . ''
`` I've been well rewarded , Mother , '' said Ernest quietly , `` but , even if nothing of the sort had happened , I would be glad that I did the best I could for Frank and Danny .
I 'm ashamed to think that I was unwilling to do it at first .
If it hadn't been for what you said , I wouldn't have .
So it is your unselfishness we have to thank for it all , Mother dear . ''
