`` I wonder if I 'd better flavour this cake with lemon or vanilla .
It's the most perplexing thing I ever heard of in my life . ''
Miss Cynthia put down the bottles with a vexed frown ; her perplexity had nothing whatever to do with flavouring the golden mixture in her cake bowl .
Mrs. John Joe knew that ; the latter had dropped in in a flurry of curiosity concerning the little boy whom she had seen about Miss Cynthia's place for the last two days .
Her daughter Kitty was with her ; they both sat close together on the kitchen sofa .
`` It is too bad , '' said Mrs. John Joe sympathetically .
`` I don't wonder you are mixed up .
So unexpected , too !
When did he come ? ''
`` Tuesday night , '' said Miss Cynthia .
She had decided on the vanilla and was whipping it briskly in .
`` I saw an express wagon drive into the yard with a boy and a trunk in it and I went out just as he got down .
` Are you my Aunt Cynthia ? '
he said .
` Who in the world are you ? '
I asked .
And he says , ` I 'm Wilbur Merrivale , and my father was John Merrivale .
He died three weeks ago and he said I was to come to you , because you were his sister . '
Well , you could just have knocked me down with a feather ! ''
`` I 'm sure , '' said Mrs. John Joe .
`` But I didn't know you had a brother .
And his name -- Merrivale ? ''
`` Well , he wasn't any relation really .
I was about six years old when my father married his mother , the Widow Merrivale .
John was just my age , and we were brought up together just like brother and sister .
He was a real nice fellow , I must say .
But he went out to Californy years ago , and I haven't heard a word of him for fifteen years -- didn't know if he was alive or dead .
But it seems from what I can make out from the boy , that his mother died when he was a baby , and him and John roughed it along together -- pretty poor , too , I guess -- till John took a fever and died .
And he told some of his friends to send the boy to me , for he 'd no relations there and not a cent in the world .
And the child came all the way from Californy , and here he is .
I've been just distracted ever since .
I've never been used to children , and to have the house kept in perpetual uproar is more than I can stand .
He's about twelve and a born mischief .
He'll tear through the rooms with his dirty feet , and he's smashed one of my blue vases and torn down a curtain and set Towser on the cat half a dozen times already -- I never was so worried .
I've got him out on the verandah shelling peas now , to keep him quiet for a little spell . ''
`` I 'm really sorry for you , '' said Mrs. John Joe .
`` But , poor child , I suppose he's never had anyone to look after him .
And come all the way from Californy alone , too -- he must be real smart . ''
`` Too smart , I guess .
He must take after his mother , whoever she was , for there ain't a bit of Merrivale in him .
And he's been brought up pretty rough . ''
`` Well , it'll be a great responsibility for you , Cynthia , of course .
But he'll be company , too , and he'll be real handy to run errands and -- '' '' I 'm not going to keep him , '' said Miss Cynthia determinedly .
Her thin lips set themselves firmly and her voice had a hard ring .
`` Not going to keep him ? ''
said Mrs. John Joe blankly .
`` You can't send him back to Californy ! ''
`` I don't intend to .
But as for having him here to worry my life out and keep me in a perpetual stew , I just won't do it .
D'ye think I 'm going to trouble myself about children at my age ?
And all he 'd cost for clothes and schooling , too !
I can't afford it .
I don't suppose his father expected it either .
I suppose he expected me to look after him a bit -- and of course I will .
A boy of his age ought to be able to earn his keep , anyway .
If I look out a place for him somewhere where he can do odd jobs and go to school in the winter , I think it's all anyone can expect of me , when he ain't really no blood relation . ''
Miss Cynthia flung the last sentence at Mrs. John Joe rather defiantly , not liking the expression on that lady's face .
`` I suppose nobody could expect more , Cynthy , '' said Mrs. John Joe deprecatingly .
`` He would be an awful bother , I've no doubt , and you've lived alone so long with no one to worry you that you wouldn't know what to do with him .
Boys are always getting into mischief -- my four just keep me on the dead jump .
Still , it's a pity for him , poor little fellow !
No mother or father -- it seems hard . ''
Miss Cynthia's face grew grimmer than ever as she went to the door with her callers and watched them down the garden path .
As soon as Mrs. John Joe saw that the door was shut , she unburdened her mind to her daughter .
`` Did you ever hear tell of the like ?
I thought I knew Cynthia Henderson well , if anybody in Wilmot did , but this beats me .
Just think , Kitty -- there she is , no one knows how rich , and not a soul in the world belonging to her , and she won't even take in her brother's child .
She must be a hard woman .
But it's just meanness , pure and simple ; she grudges him what he 'd eat and wear .
The poor mite doesn't look as if he 'd need much .
Cynthia didn't used to be like that , but it's growing on her every day .
She's got hard as rocks . ''
That afternoon Miss Cynthia harnessed her fat grey pony into the phaeton herself -- she kept neither man nor maid , but lived in her big , immaculate house in solitary state -- and drove away down the dusty , buttercup-bordered road , leaving Wilbur sitting on the verandah .
She returned in an hour's time and drove into the yard , shutting the gate behind her with a vigorous snap .
Wilbur was not in sight and , fearful lest he should be in mischief , she hurriedly tied the pony to the railing and went in search of him .
She found him sitting by the well , his chin in his hands ; he was pale and his eyes were red .
Miss Cynthia hardened her heart and took him into the house .
`` I've been down to see Mr. Robins this afternoon , Wilbur , '' she said , pretending to brush some invisible dust from the bottom of her nice black cashmere skirt for an excuse to avoid looking at him , `` and he's agreed to take you on trial .
It's a real good chance -- better than you could expect .
He says he'll board and clothe you and let you go to school in the winter . ''
The boy seemed to shrink .
`` Daddy said that I would stay with you , '' he said wistfully .
`` He said you were so good and kind and would love me for his sake . ''
For a moment Miss Cynthia softened .
She had been very fond of her stepbrother ; it seemed that his voice appealed to her across the grave in behalf of his child .
But the crust of years was not to be so easily broken .
`` Your father meant that I would look after you , '' she said , `` and I mean to , but I can't afford to keep you here .
You'll have a good place at Mr. Robins ' , if you behave yourself .
I 'm going to take you down now , before I unharness the pony , so go and wash your face while I put up your things .
Don't look so woebegone , for pity's sake !
I 'm not taking you to prison . ''
Wilbur turned and went silently to the kitchen .
Miss Cynthia thought she heard a sob .
She went with a firm step into the little bedroom off the hall and took a purse out of a drawer .
`` I s ` pose I ought , '' she said doubtfully .
`` I don't s ` pose he has a cent .
I daresay he'll lose or waste it . ''
She counted out seventy-five cents carefully .
When she came out , Wilbur was at the door .
She put the money awkwardly into his hand .
`` There , see that you don't spend it on any foolishness . ''
* * * * * Miss Cynthia's Action made a good deal of talk in Wilmot .
The women , headed by Mrs. John Joe -- who said behind Cynthia's back what she did not dare say to her face -- condemned her .
The men laughed and said that Cynthia was a shrewd one ; there was no getting round her .
Miss Cynthia herself was far from easy .
She could not forget Wilbur's wistful eyes , and she had heard that Robins was a hard master .
A week after the boy had gone she saw him one day at the store .
He was lifting heavy bags from a cart .
The work was beyond his strength , and he was flushed and panting .
Miss Cynthia's conscience gave her a hard stab .
She bought a roll of peppermints and took them over to him .
He thanked her timidly and drove quickly away .
`` Robins hasn't any business putting such work on a child , '' she said to herself indignantly .
`` I'll speak to him about it . ''
And she did -- and got an answer that made her ears tingle .
Mr. Robins bluntly told her he guessed he knew what was what about his hands .
He weren't no nigger driver .
If she wasn't satisfied , she might take the boy away as soon as she liked .
Miss Cynthia did not get much comfort out of life that summer .
Almost everywhere she went she was sure to meet Wilbur , engaged in some hard task .
She could not help seeing how miserably pale and thin he had become .
The worry had its effect on her .
The neighbours said that Cynthy was sharper than ever .
Even her church-going was embittered .
She had always enjoyed walking up the aisle with her rich silk skirt rustling over the carpet , her cashmere shawl folded correctly over her shoulders , and her lace bonnet set precisely on her thin shining crimps .
But she could take no pleasure in that or in the sermon now , when Wilbur sat right across from her pew , between hard-featured Robins and his sulky-looking wife .
The boy's eyes had grown too large for his thin face .
The softening of Miss Cynthia was a very gradual process , but it reached a climax one September morning , when Mrs. John Joe came into the former's kitchen with an important face .
Miss Cynthia was preserving her plums .
`` No , thank you , I'll not sit down -- I only run in -- I suppose you've heard it .
That little Merrivale boy has took awful sick with fever , they say .
He's been worked half to death this summer -- everyone knows what Robins is with his help -- and they say he has fretted a good deal for his father and been homesick , and he's run down , I s ` pose .
Anyway , Robins took him over to the hospital at Stanford last night -- good gracious , Cynthy , are you sick ? ''
Miss Cynthia had staggered to a seat by the table ; her face was pallid .
`` No , it's only your news gave me a turn -- it came so suddenly -- I didn't know . ''
`` I must hurry back and see to the men's dinners .
I thought I 'd come and tell you , though I didn't know as you 'd care . ''
This parting shot was unheeded by Miss Cynthia .
She laid her face in her hands .
`` It's a judgement on me , '' she moaned .
`` He's going to die , and I 'm his murderess .
This is the account I'll have to give John Merrivale of his boy .
I've been a wicked , selfish woman , and I 'm justly punished . ''
It was a humbled Miss Cynthia who met the doctor at the hospital that afternoon .
He shook his head at her eager questions .
`` It's a pretty bad case .
The boy seems run down every way .
No , it is impossible to think of moving him again .
Bringing him here last night did him a great deal of harm .
Yes , you may see him , but he will not know you , I fear -- he is delirious and raves of his father and California . ''
Miss Cynthia followed the doctor down the long ward .
When he paused by a cot , she pushed past him .
Wilbur lay tossing restlessly on his pillow .
He was thin to emaciation , but his cheeks were crimson and his eyes burning bright .
Miss Cynthia stooped and took the hot , dry hands in hers .
`` Wilbur , '' she sobbed , `` don't you know me -- Aunt Cynthia ? ''
`` You are not my Aunt Cynthia , '' said Wilbur .
`` Daddy said Aunt Cynthia was good and kind -- you are a cross , bad woman .
I want Daddy .
Why doesn't he come ?
Why doesn't he come to little Wilbur ? ''
Miss Cynthia got up and faced the doctor .
`` He's got to get better , '' she said stubbornly .
`` Spare no expense or trouble .
If he dies , I will be a murderess .
He must live and give me a chance to make it up for him . ''
And he did live ; but for a long time it was a hard fight , and there were days when it seemed that death must win .
Miss Cynthia got so thin and wan that even Mrs. John Joe pitied her .
The earth seemed to Miss Cynthia to laugh out in prodigal joyousness on the afternoon she drove home when Wilbur had been pronounced out of danger .
How tranquil the hills looked , with warm October sunshine sleeping on their sides and faint blue hazes on their brows !
How gallantly the maples flaunted their crimson flags !
How kind and friendly was every face she met !
Afterwards , Miss Cynthia said she began to live that day .
Wilbur's recovery was slow .
Every day Miss Cynthia drove over with some dainty , and her loving gentleness sat none the less gracefully on her because of its newness .
Wilbur grew to look for and welcome her coming .
When it was thought safe to remove him , Miss Cynthia went to the hospital with a phaeton-load of shawls and pillows .
`` I have come to take you away , '' she said .
Wilbur shrank back .
`` Not to Mr. Robins , '' he said piteously .
`` Oh , not there , Aunt Cynthia ! ''
