The warm June sunshine was coming down through the trees , white with the virginal bloom of apple-blossoms , and through the shining panes , making a tremulous mosaic upon Mrs. Eben Andrews ' spotless kitchen floor .
Through the open door , a wind , fragrant from long wanderings over orchards and clover meadows , drifted in , and , from the window , Mrs. Eben and her guest could look down over a long , misty valley sloping to a sparkling sea .
Mrs. Jonas Andrews was spending the afternoon with her sister-in-law .
She was a big , sonsy woman , with full-blown peony cheeks and large , dreamy , brown eyes .
When she had been a slim , pink-and-white girl those eyes had been very romantic .
Now they were so out of keeping with the rest of her appearance as to be ludicrous .
Mrs. Eben , sitting at the other end of the small tea-table that was drawn up against the window , was a thin little woman , with a very sharp nose and light , faded blue eyes .
She looked like a woman whose opinions were always very decided and warranted to wear .
`` How does Sara like teaching at Newbridge ? ''
asked Mrs. Jonas , helping herself a second time to Mrs. Eben's matchless black fruit cake , and thereby bestowing a subtle compliment which Mrs. Eben did not fail to appreciate .
`` Well , I guess she likes it pretty well -- better than down at White Sands , anyway , '' answered Mrs. Eben .
`` Yes , I may say it suits her .
Of course it's a long walk there and back .
I think it would have been wiser for her to keep on boarding at Morrison's , as she did all winter , but Sara is bound to be home all she can .
And I must say the walk seems to agree with her . ''
`` I was down to see Jonas ' aunt at Newbridge last night , '' said Mrs. Jonas , `` and she said she 'd heard that Sara had made up her mind to take Lige Baxter at last , and that they were to be married in the fall .
She asked me if it was true .
I said I didn't know , but I hoped to mercy it was .
Now , is it , Louisa ? ''
`` Not a word of it , '' said Mrs. Eben sorrowfully .
`` Sara hasn't any more notion of taking Lige than ever she had .
I 'm sure it's not MY fault .
I've talked and argued till I 'm tired .
I declare to you , Amelia , I am terribly disappointed .
I 'd set my heart on Sara's marrying Lige -- and now to think she won't ! ''
`` She is a very foolish girl , '' said Mrs. Jonas , judicially .
`` If Lige Baxter isn't good enough for her , who is ? ''
`` And he's so well off , '' said Mrs. Eben , `` and does such a good business , and is well spoken of by every one .
And that lovely new house of his at Newbridge , with bay windows and hardwood floors !
I've dreamed and dreamed of seeing Sara there as mistress . ''
`` Maybe you'll see her there yet , '' said Mrs. Jonas , who always took a hopeful view of everything , even of Sara's contrariness .
But she felt discouraged , too .
Well , she had done her best .
If Lige Baxter's broth was spoiled it was not for lack of cooks .
Every Andrews in Avonlea had been trying for two years to bring about a match between him and Sara , and Mrs. Jonas had borne her part valiantly .
Mrs. Eben's despondent reply was cut short by the appearance of Sara herself .
The girl stood for a moment in the doorway and looked with a faintly amused air at her aunts .
She knew quite well that they had been discussing her , for Mrs. Jonas , who carried her conscience in her face , looked guilty , and Mrs. Eben had not been able wholly to banish her aggrieved expression .
Sara put away her books , kissed Mrs. Jonas ' rosy cheek , and sat down at the table .
Mrs. Eben brought her some fresh tea , some hot rolls , and a little jelly-pot of the apricot preserves Sara liked , and she cut some more fruit cake for her in moist plummy slices .
She might be out of patience with Sara's `` contrariness , '' but she spoiled and petted her for all that , for the girl was the very core of her childless heart .
Sara Andrews was not , strictly speaking , pretty ; but there was that about her which made people look at her twice .
She was very dark , with a rich , dusky sort of darkness , her deep eyes were velvety brown , and her lips and cheeks were crimson .
She ate her rolls and preserves with a healthy appetite , sharpened by her long walk from Newbridge , and told amusing little stories of her day's work that made the two older women shake with laughter , and exchange shy glances of pride over her cleverness .
When tea was over she poured the remaining contents of the cream jug into a saucer .
`` I must feed my pussy , '' she said as she left the room .
`` That girl beats me , '' said Mrs. Eben with a sigh of perplexity .
`` You know that black cat we've had for two years ?
Eben and I have always made a lot of him , but Sara seemed to have a dislike to him .
Never a peaceful nap under the stove could he have when Sara was home -- out he must go .
Well , a little spell ago he got his leg broke accidentally and we thought he 'd have to be killed .
But Sara wouldn't hear of it .
She got splints and set his leg just as knacky , and bandaged it up , and she has tended him like a sick baby ever since .
He's just about well now , and he lives in clover , that cat does .
It's just her way .
There's them sick chickens she's been doctoring for a week , giving them pills and things !
`` And she thinks more of that wretched-looking calf that got poisoned with paris green than of all the other stock on the place . ''
As the summer wore away , Mrs. Eben tried to reconcile herself to the destruction of her air castles .
But she scolded Sara considerably .
`` Sara , why don't you like Lige ?
I 'm sure he is a model young man . ''
`` I don't like model young men , '' answered Sara impatiently .
`` And I really think I hate Lige Baxter .
He has always been held up to me as such a paragon .
I 'm tired of hearing about all his perfections .
I know them all off by heart .
He doesn't drink , he doesn't smoke , he doesn't steal , he doesn't tell fibs , he never loses his temper , he doesn't swear , and he goes to church regularly .
Such a faultless creature as that would certainly get on my nerves .
No , no , you'll have to pick out another mistress for your new house at the Bridge , Aunt Louisa . ''
When the apple trees , that had been pink and white in June , were russet and bronze in October , Mrs. Eben had a quilting .
The quilt was of the `` Rising Star '' pattern , which was considered in Avonlea to be very handsome .
Mrs. Eben had intended it for part of Sara's `` setting out , '' and , while she sewed the red-and-white diamonds together , she had regaled her fancy by imagining she saw it spread out on the spare-room bed of the house at Newbridge , with herself laying her bonnet and shawl on it when she went to see Sara .
Those bright visions had faded with the apple blossoms , and Mrs. Eben hardly had the heart to finish the quilt at all .
The quilting came off on Saturday afternoon , when Sara could be home from school .
All Mrs. Eben's particular friends were ranged around the quilt , and tongues and fingers flew .
Sara flitted about , helping her aunt with the supper preparations .
She was in the room , getting the custard dishes out of the cupboard , when Mrs. George Pye arrived .
Mrs. George had a genius for being late .
She was later than usual to-day , and she looked excited .
Every woman around the `` Rising Star '' felt that Mrs. George had some news worth listening to , and there was an expectant silence while she pulled out her chair and settled herself at the quilt .
She was a tall , thin woman with a long pale face and liquid green eyes .
As she looked around the circle she had the air of a cat daintily licking its chops over some titbit .
`` I suppose , '' she said , `` that you have heard the news ? ''
She knew perfectly well that they had not .
Every other woman at the frame stopped quilting .
Mrs. Eben came to the door with a pan of puffy , smoking-hot soda biscuits in her hand .
Sara stopped counting the custard dishes , and turned her ripely-colored face over her shoulder .
Even the black cat , at her feet , ceased preening his fur .
Mrs. George felt that the undivided attention of her audience was hers .
`` Baxter Brothers have failed , '' she said , her green eyes shooting out flashes of light .
`` Failed DISGRACEFULLY ! ''
She paused for a moment ; but , since her hearers were as yet speechless from surprise , she went on .
`` George came home from Newbridge , just before I left , with the news .
You could have knocked me down with a feather .
I should have thought that firm was as steady as the Rock of Gibraltar !
But they 're ruined -- absolutely ruined .
Louisa , dear , can you find me a good needle ? ''
`` Louisa , dear , '' had set her biscuits down with a sharp thud , reckless of results .
A sharp , metallic tinkle sounded at the closet where Sara had struck the edge of her tray against a shelf .
The sound seemed to loosen the paralyzed tongues , and everybody began talking and exclaiming at once .
Clear and shrill above the confusion rose Mrs. George Pye's voice .
`` Yes , indeed , you may well say so .
It IS disgraceful .
And to think how everybody trusted them !
George will lose considerable by the crash , and so will a good many folks .
Everything will have to go -- Peter Baxter's farm and Lige's grand new house .
Mrs. Peter won't carry her head so high after this , I'll be bound .
George saw Lige at the Bridge , and he said he looked dreadful cut up and ashamed . ''
`` Who , or what's to blame for the failure ? ''
asked Mrs. Rachel Lynde sharply .
She did not like Mrs. George Pye .
`` There are a dozen different stories on the go , '' was the reply .
`` As far as George could make out , Peter Baxter has been speculating with other folks ' money , and this is the result .
Everybody always suspected that Peter was crooked ; but you 'd have thought that Lige would have kept him straight .
HE had always such a reputation for saintliness . ''
`` I don't suppose Lige knew anything about it , '' said Mrs. Rachel indignantly .
`` Well , he 'd ought to , then .
If he isn't a knave he's a fool , '' said Mrs. Harmon Andrews , who had formerly been among his warmest partisans .
`` He should have kept watch on Peter and found out how the business was being run .
Well , Sara , you were the level-headest of us all -- I'll admit that now .
A nice mess it would be if you were married or engaged to Lige , and him left without a cent -- even if he can clear his character ! ''
`` There is a good deal of talk about Peter , and swindling , and a lawsuit , '' said Mrs. George Pye , quilting industriously .
`` Most of the Newbridge folks think it's all Peter's fault , and that Lige isn't to blame .
But you can't tell .
I dare say Lige is as deep in the mire as Peter .
He was always a little too good to be wholesome , I thought . ''
There was a clink of glass at the cupboard , as Sara set the tray down .
She came forward and stood behind Mrs. Rachel Lynde's chair , resting her shapely hands on that lady's broad shoulders .
Her face was very pale , but her flashing eyes sought and faced defiantly Mrs. George Pye's cat-like orbs .
Her voice quivered with passion and contempt .
`` You'll all have a fling at Lige Baxter , now that he's down .
You couldn't say enough in his praise , once .
I'll not stand by and hear it hinted that Lige Baxter is a swindler .
You all know perfectly well that Lige is as honest as the day , if he IS so unfortunate as to have an unprincipled brother .
You , Mrs. Pye , know it better than any one , yet you come here and run him down the minute he's in trouble .
If there's another word said here against Lige Baxter I'll leave the room and the house till you 're gone , every one of you . ''
She flashed a glance around the quilt that cowed the gossips .
Even Mrs. George Pye's eyes flickered and waned and quailed .
Nothing more was said until Sara had picked up her glasses and marched from the room .
Even then they dared not speak above a whisper .
Mrs. Pye , alone , smarting from snub , ventured to ejaculate , `` Pity save us ! ''
as Sara slammed the door .
For the next fortnight gossip and rumor held high carnival in Avonlea and Newbridge , and Mrs. Eben grew to dread the sight of a visitor .
`` They 're bound to talk about the Baxter failure and criticize Lige , '' she deplored to Mrs. Jonas .
`` And it riles Sara up so terrible .
She used to declare that she hated Lige , and now she won't listen to a word against him .
Not that I say any , myself .
I 'm sorry for him , and I believe he's done his best .
But I can't stop other people from talking . ''
One evening Harmon Andrews came in with a fresh budget of news .
`` The Baxter business is pretty near wound up at last , '' he said , as he lighted his pipe .
`` Peter has got his lawsuits settled and has hushed up the talk about swindling , somehow .
Trust him for slipping out of a scrape clean and clever .
He don't seem to worry any , but Lige looks like a walking skeleton .
Some folks pity him , but I say he should have kept the run of things better and not have trusted everything to Peter .
I hear he's going out West in the Spring , to take up land in Alberta and try his hand at farming .
Best thing he can do , I guess .
Folks hereabouts have had enough of the Baxter breed .
Newbridge will be well rid of them . ''
Sara , who had been sitting in the dark corner by the stove , suddenly stood up , letting the black cat slip from her lap to the floor .
Mrs. Eben glanced at her apprehensively , for she was afraid the girl was going to break out in a tirade against the complacent Harmon .
But Sara only walked fiercely out of the kitchen , with a sound as if she were struggling for breath .
In the hall she snatched a scarf from the wall , flung open the front door , and rushed down the lane in the chill , pure air of the autumn twilight .
Her heart was throbbing with the pity she always felt for bruised and baited creatures .
On and on she went heedlessly , intent only on walking away her pain , over gray , brooding fields and winding slopes , and along the skirts of ruinous , dusky pine woods , curtained with fine spun purple gloom .
Her dress brushed against the brittle grasses and sere ferns , and the moist night wind , loosed from wild places far away , blew her hair about her face .
At last she came to a little rustic gate , leading into a shadowy wood-lane .
The gate was bound with willow withes , and , as Sara fumbled vainly at them with her chilled hands , a man's firm step came up behind her , and Lige Baxter's hand closed over her's .
`` Oh , Lige ! ''
she said , with something like a sob .
He opened the gate and drew her through .
She left her hand in his , as they walked through the lane where lissome boughs of young saplings flicked against their heads , and the air was wildly sweet with the woodsy odors .
`` It's a long while since I've seen you , Lige , '' Sara said at last .
Lige looked wistfully down at her through the gloom .
`` Yes , it seems very long to me , Sara .
But I didn't think you 'd care to see me , after what you said last spring .
And you know things have been going against me .
People have said hard things .
I've been unfortunate , Sara , and may be too easy-going , but I've been honest .
Don't believe folks if they tell you I wasn't . ''
`` Indeed , I never did -- not for a minute ! ''
fired Sara .
`` I 'm glad of that .
I 'm going away , later on .
I felt bad enough when you refused to marry me , Sara ; but it's well that you didn't .
I 'm man enough to be thankful my troubles don't fall on you . ''
Sara stopped and turned to him .
Beyond them the lane opened into a field and a clear lake of crocus sky cast a dim light into the shadow where they stood .
Above it was a new moon , like a gleaming silver scimitar .
Sara saw it was over her left shoulder , and she saw Lige's face above her , tender and troubled .
`` Lige , '' she said softly , `` do you love me still ? ''
`` You know I do , '' said Lige sadly .
That was all Sara wanted .
With a quick movement she nestled into his arms , and laid her warm , tear-wet cheek against his cold one .
When the amazing rumor that Sara was going to marry Lige Baxter , and go out West with him , circulated through the Andrews clan , hands were lifted and heads were shaken .
Mrs. Jonas puffed and panted up the hill to learn if it were true .
She found Mrs. Eben stitching for dear life on an `` Irish Chain '' quilt , while Sara was sewing the diamonds on another `` Rising Star '' with a martyr-like expression on her face .
Sara hated patchwork above everything else , but Mrs. Eben was mistress up to a certain point .
`` You'll have to make that quilt , Sara Andrews .
If you 're going to live out on those prairies , you'll need piles of quilts , and you shall have them if I sew my fingers to the bone .
But you'll have to help make them . ''
And Sara had to .
When Mrs. Jonas came , Mrs. Eben sent Sara off to the post-office to get her out of the way .
`` I suppose it's true , this time ? ''
said Mrs. Jonas .
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Mrs. Eben briskly .
`` Sara is set on it .
There is no use trying to move her -- you know that -- so I've just concluded to make the best of it .
I 'm no turn-coat .
Lige Baxter is Lige Baxter still , neither more nor less .
I've always said he's a fine young man , and I say so still .
After all , he and Sara won't be any poorer than Eben and I were when we started out . ''
Mrs. Jonas heaved a sigh of relief .
`` I 'm real glad you take that view of it , Louisa .
I 'm not displeased , either , although Mrs. Harmon would take my head off if she heard me say so .
I always liked Lige .
But I must say I 'm amazed , too , after the way Sara used to rail at him . ''
`` Well , we might have expected it , '' said Mrs. Eben sagely .
`` It was always Sara's way .
When any creature got sick or unfortunate she seemed to take it right into her heart .
So you may say Lige Baxter's failure was a success after all . ''
