When Theodosia Ford married Wesley Brooke after a courtship of three years , everybody concerned was satisfied .
There was nothing particularly romantic in either the courtship or marriage .
Wesley was a steady , well-meaning , rather slow fellow , comfortably off .
He was not at all handsome .
But Theodosia was a very pretty girl with the milky colouring of an auburn blonde and large china-blue eyes .
She looked mild and Madonna-like and was known to be sweet-tempered .
Wesley's older brother , Irving Brooke , had married a woman who kept him in hot water all the time , so Heatherton folks said , but they thought there was no fear of that with Wesley and Theodosia .
They would get along together all right .
Only old Jim Parmelee shook his head and said , `` They might , and then again they mightn't '' ; he knew the stock they came of and it was a kind you could never predict about .
Wesley and Theodosia were third cousins ; this meant that old Henry Ford had been the great-great-grandfather of them both .
Jim Parmelee , who was ninety , had been a small boy when this remote ancestor was still alive .
`` I mind him well , '' said old Jim on the morning of Theodosia's wedding day .
There was a little group about the blacksmith's forge .
Old Jim was in the centre .
He was a fat , twinkling-eyed old man , fresh and ruddy in spite of his ninety years .
`` And , '' he went on , `` he was about the settest man you 'd ever see or want to see .
When old Henry Ford made up his mind on any p ` int a cyclone wouldn't turn him a hairsbreadth -- no , nor an earthquake neither .
Didn't matter a mite how much he suffered for it -- he 'd stick to it if it broke his heart .
There was always some story or other going round about old Henry's setness .
The family weren't quite so bad -- only Tom .
He was Dosia's great-grandfather , and a regular chip of the old block .
Since then it's cropped out now and again all through the different branches of the family .
I mistrust if Dosia hasn't got a spice of it , and Wes Brooke too , but mebbe not . ''
Old Jim was the only croaker .
Wesley and Theodosia were married , in the golden prime of the Indian summer , and settled down on their snug little farm .
Dosia was a beautiful bride , and Wesley's pride in her was amusingly apparent .
He thought nothing too good for her , the Heatherton people said .
It was a sight to make an old heart young to see him march up the aisle of the church on Sunday in all the glossy splendour of his wedding suit , his curly black head held high and his round boyish face shining with happiness , stopping and turning proudly at his pew to show Theodosia in .
They always sat alone together in the big pew , and Alma Spencer , who sat behind them , declared that they held each other's hands all through the service .
This lasted until spring ; then came a sensation and scandal , such as decorous Heatherton had not known since the time Isaac Allen got drunk at Centreville Fair and came home and kicked his wife .
One evening in early April Wesley came home from the store at `` the Corner , '' where he had lingered to talk over politics and farming methods with his cronies .
This evening he was later than usual , and Theodosia had his supper kept warm for him .
She met him on the porch and kissed him .
He kissed her in return , and held her to him for a minute , with her bright head on his shoulder .
The frogs were singing down in the south meadow swamp , and there was a splendour of silvery moonrise over the wooded Heatherton hills .
Theodosia always remembered that moment .
When they went in , Wesley , full of excitement , began to talk of what he had heard at the store .
Ogden Greene and Tom Cary were going to sell out and go to Manitoba .
There were better chances for a man out there , he said ; in Heatherton he might slave all his life and never make more than a bare living .
Out west he might make a fortune .
Wesley talked on in this strain for some time , rehashing all the arguments he had heard Greene and Cary use .
He had always been rather disposed to grumble at his limited chances in Heatherton , and now the great West seemed to stretch before him , full of alluring prospects and visions .
Ogden and Tom wanted him to go too , he said .
He had half a notion to .
Heatherton was a stick-in-the-mud sort of place anyhow .
`` What say , Dosia ? ''
He looked across the table at her , his eyes bright and questioning .
Theodosia had listened in silence , as she poured his tea and passed him her hot , flaky biscuits .
There was a little perpendicular wrinkle between her straight eyebrows .
`` I think Ogden and Tom are fools , '' she said crisply .
`` They have good farms here .
What do they want to go west for , or you , either ?
Don't get silly notions in your head , Wes . ''
Wesley flushed .
`` Wouldn't you go with me , Dosia ? ''
he said , trying to speak lightly .
`` No , I wouldn't , '' said Theodosia , in her calm , sweet voice .
Her face was serene , but the little wrinkle had grown deeper .
Old Jim Parmelee would have known what it meant .
He had seen the same expression on old Henry Ford's face many a time .
Wesley laughed good-humouredly , as if at a child .
His heart was suddenly set on going west , and he was sure he could soon bring Theodosia around .
He did not say anything more about it just then .
Wesley thought he knew how to manage women .
When he broached the subject again , two days later , Theodosia told him plainly that it was no use .
She would never consent to leave Heatherton and all her friends and go out to the prairies .
The idea was just rank foolishness , and he would soon see that himself .
All this Theodosia said calmly and sweetly , without any trace of temper or irritation .
Wesley still believed that he could persuade her and he tried perseveringly for a fortnight .
By the end of that time he discovered that Theodosia was not a great-great-granddaughter of old Henry Ford for nothing .
Not that Theodosia ever got angry .
Neither did she laugh at him .
She met his arguments and pleadings seriously enough , but she never wavered .
`` If you go to Manitoba , Wes , you'll go alone , '' she said .
`` I'll never go , so there is no use in any more talking . ''
Wesley was a descendant of old Henry Ford too .
Theodosia's unexpected opposition roused all the latent stubbornness of his nature .
He went over to Centreville oftener , and kept his blood at fever heat talking to Greene and Cary , who wanted him to go with them and spared no pains at inducement .
The matter was gossiped about in Heatherton , of course .
People knew that Wesley Brooke had caught `` the western fever , '' and wanted to sell out and go to Manitoba , while Theodosia was opposed to it .
They thought Dosia would have to give in in the end , but said it was a pity Wes Brooke couldn't be contented to stay where he was well off .
Theodosia's family naturally sided with her and tried to dissuade Wesley .
But he was mastered by that resentful irritation , roused in a man by opposition where he thinks he should be master , which will drive him into any cause .
One day he told Theodosia that he was going .
She was working her butter in her little , snowy-clean dairy under the great willows by the well .
Wesley was standing in the doorway , his stout , broad-shouldered figure filling up the sunlit space .
He was frowning and sullen .
`` I 'm going west in two weeks ' time with the boys , Dosia , '' he said stubbornly .
`` You can come with me or stay here -- just exactly as you please .
But I 'm going . ''
Theodosia went on spatting her balls of golden butter on the print in silence .
She was looking very neat and pretty in her big white apron , her sleeves rolled up high above her plump , dimpled elbows , and her ruddy hair curling about her face and her white throat .
She looked as pliable as her butter .
Her silence angered her husband .
He shuffled impatiently .
`` Well , what have you to say , Dosia ? ''
`` Nothing , '' said Theodosia .
`` If you have made up your mind to go , go you will , I suppose .
But I will not .
There is no use in talking .
We've been over the ground often enough , Wes .
The matter is settled . ''
Up to that moment Wesley had always believed that his wife would yield at last , when she saw that he was determined .
Now he realized that she never would .
Under that exterior of milky , dimpled flesh and calm blue eyes was all the iron will of old dead and forgotten Henry Ford .
This mildest and meekest of girls and wives was not to be moved a hairsbreadth by all argument or entreaty , or insistence on a husband's rights .
A great , sudden anger came over the man .
He lifted his hand and for one moment it seemed to Theodosia as if he meant to strike her .
Then he dropped it with the first oath that had ever crossed his lips .
`` You listen to me , '' he said thickly .
`` If you won't go with me I'll never come back here -- never .
When you want to do your duty as a wife you can come to me .
But I'll never come back . ''
He turned on his heel and strode away .
Theodosia kept on spatting her butter .
The little perpendicular wrinkle had come between her brows again .
At that moment an odd , almost uncanny resemblance to the old portrait of her great-great-grandfather , which hung on the parlour wall at home , came out on her girlish face .
The fortnight passed by .
Wesley was silent and sullen , never speaking to his wife when he could avoid it .
Theodosia was as sweet and serene as ever .
She made an extra supply of shirts and socks for him , put up his lunch basket , and packed his trunk carefully .
But she never spoke of his journey .
He did not sell his farm .
Irving Brooke rented it .
Theodosia was to live in the house .
The business arrangements were simple and soon concluded .
Heatherton folks gossiped a great deal .
They all condemned Theodosia .
Even her own people sided against her now .
They hated to be mixed up in a local scandal , and since Wes was bound to go they told Theodosia that it was her duty to go with him , no matter how much she disliked it .
It would be disgraceful not to .
They might as well have talked to the four winds .
Theodosia was immoveable .
They coaxed and argued and blamed -- it all came to the same thing .
Even those of them who could be `` set '' enough themselves on occasion could not understand Theodosia , who had always been so tractable .
They finally gave up , as Wesley had done , baffled .
Time would bring her to her senses , they said ; you just had to leave that still , stubborn kind alone .
On the morning of Wesley's departure Theodosia arose at sunrise and prepared a tempting breakfast .
Irving Brooke's oldest son , Stanley , who was to drive Wesley to the station , came over early with his express wagon .
Wesley's trunk , corded and labelled , stood on the back platform .
The breakfast was a very silent meal .
When it was over Wesley put on his hat and overcoat and went to the door , around which Theodosia's morning-glory vines were beginning to twine .
The sun was not yet above the trees and the long shadows lay on the dewy grass .
The wet leaves were flickering on the old maples that grew along the fence between the yard and the clover field beyond .
The skies were all pearly blue , cleanswept of clouds .
From the little farmhouse the green meadows sloped down to the valley , where a blue haze wound in and out like a glistening ribbon .
Theodosia went out and stood looking inscrutably on , while Wesley and Irving hoisted the trunk into the wagon and tied it .
Then Wesley came up the porch steps and looked at her .
`` Dosia , '' he said a little huskily , `` I said I wouldn't ask you to go again , but I will .
Will you come with me yet ? ''
`` No , '' said Theodosia gently .
He held out his hand .
He did not offer to kiss her .
`` Goodbye , Dosia . ''
`` Goodbye , Wes . ''
There was no tremor of an eyelash with her .
Wesley smiled bitterly and turned away .
When the wagon reached the end of the little lane he turned and looked back for the last time .
Through all the years that followed he carried with him the picture of his wife as he saw her then , standing amid the airy shadows and wavering golden lights of the morning , the wind blowing the skirt of her pale blue wrapper about her feet and ruffling the locks of her bright hair into a delicate golden cloud .
Then the wagon disappeared around a curve in the road , and Theodosia turned and went back into her desolate home .
For a time there was a great buzz of gossip over the affair .
People wondered over it .
Old Jim Parmelee understood better than the others .
When he met Theodosia he looked at her with a curious twinkle in his keen old eyes .
`` Looks as if a man could bend her any way he 'd a mind to , doesn't she ? ''
he said .
`` Looks is deceiving .
It'll come out in her face by and by -- she's too young yet , but it's there .
It does seem unnatteral to see a woman so stubborn -- you 'd kinder look for it more in a man . ''
Wesley wrote a brief letter to Theodosia when he reached his destination .
He said he was well and was looking about for the best place to settle .
He liked the country fine .
He was at a place called Red Butte and guessed he 'd locate there .
Two weeks later he wrote again .
He had taken up a claim of three hundred acres .
Greene and Cary had done the same .
They were his nearest neighbours and were three miles away .
He had knocked up a little shack , was learning to cook his own meals , and was very busy .
He thought the country was a grand one and the prospects good .
Theodosia answered his letter and told him all the Heatherton news .
She signed herself `` Theodosia Brooke , '' but otherwise there was nothing in the letter to indicate that it was written by a wife to her husband .
At the end of a year Wesley wrote and once more asked her to go out to him .
He was getting on well , and was sure she would like the place .
It was a little rough , to be sure , but time would improve that .
`` Won't you let bygones be bygones , Dosia ? ''
he wrote , `` and come out to me .
Do , my dear wife . ''
Theodosia wrote back , refusing to go .
She never got any reply , nor did she write again .
People had given up talking about the matter and asking Theodosia when she was going out to Wes .
Heatherton had grown used to the chronic scandal within its decorous borders .
Theodosia never spoke of her husband to anyone , and it was known that they did not correspond .
She took her youngest sister to live with her .
She had her garden and hens and a cow .
The farm brought her enough to live on , and she was always busy .
* * * * * When fifteen years had gone by there were naturally some changes in Heatherton , sleepy and ; unprogressive as it was .
Most of the old people were in the little hillside burying-ground that fronted the sunrise .
Old Jim Parmelee was there with his recollections of four generations .
Men and women who had been in their prime when Wesley went away were old now and the children were grown up and married .
Theodosia was thirty-five and was nothing like !
the slim , dimpled girl who had stood on the porch steps and watched her husband drive away that morning fifteen years ago .
She was stout and comely ; the auburn hair was darker and arched away from her face in smooth , shining waves instead of the old-time curls .
Her face was unlined and fresh-coloured , but no woman could live in subjection to her own unbending will for so many years and not show it .
Nobody , looking at Theodosia now , would have found it hard to believe that a woman with such a determined , immoveable face could stick to a course of conduct in defiance of circumstances .
Wesley Brooke was almost forgotten .
People knew , through correspondents of Greene and Cary , that he had prospered and grown rich .
The curious old story had crystallized into accepted history .
A life may go on without ripple or disturbance for so many years that it may seem to have settled into a lasting calm ; then a sudden wind of passion may sweep over it and leave behind a wake of tempestuous waters .
Such a time came at last to Theodosia .
One day in August Mrs. Emory Merritt dropped in .
Emory Merritt's sister was Ogden Greene's wife , and the Merritts kept up an occasional correspondence with her .
Hence , Cecilia Merritt always knew what was to be known about Wesley Brooke , and always told Theodosia because she had never been expressly forbidden to do so .
Today she looked slightly excited .
Secretly she was wondering if the news she brought would have any effect whatever on Theodosia's impassive calm .
`` Do you know , Dosia , Wesley's real sick ?
In fact , Phoebe Greene says they have very poor hopes of him .
He was kind of ailing all the spring , it seems , and about a month ago he was took down with some kind of slow fever they have out there .
Phoebe says they have a hired nurse from the nearest town and a good doctor , but she reckons he won't get over it .
That fever goes awful hard with a man of his years . ''
Cecilia Merritt , who was the fastest talker in Heatherton , had got this out before she was brought up by a queer sound , half gasp , half cry , from Theodosia .
The latter looked as if someone had struck her a physical blow .
`` Mercy , Dosia , you ain't going to faint !
I didn't suppose you 'd care .
You never seemed to care . ''
`` Did you say , '' asked Theodosia thickly , `` that Wesley was sick -- dying ? ''
`` Well , that's what Phoebe said .
She may be mistaken .
Dosia Brooke , you 're a queer woman .
I never could make you out and I never expect to .
I guess only the Lord who made you can translate you . ''
Theodosia stood up .
The sun was getting low , and the valley beneath them , ripening to harvest , was like a river of gold .
She folded up her sewing with a steady hand .
`` It's five o'clock , so I'll ask you to excuse me , Cecilia .
I have a good deal to attend to .
You can ask Emory if he'll drive me to the station in the morning .
I 'm going out to Wes . ''
`` Well , for the land's sake , '' said Cecilia Merritt feebly , as she tied on her gingham sunbonnet .
She got up and went home in a daze .
Theodosia packed her trunk and worked all night , dry-eyed , with agony and fear tearing at her heart .
The iron will had snapped at last , like a broken reed , and fierce self-condemnation seized on her .
`` I've been a wicked woman , '' she moaned .
A week from that day Theodosia climbed down from the dusty stage that had brought her from the station over the prairies to the unpretentious little house where Wesley Brooke lived .
A young girl , so like what Ogden Greene's wife had been fifteen years before that Theodosia involuntarily exclaimed , `` Phoebe , '' came to the door .
Beyond her , Theodosia saw the white-capped nurse .
Her voice trembled .
`` Does -- does Wesley Brooke live here ? ''
she asked .
The girl nodded .
`` Yes .
But he is very ill at present .
Nobody is allowed to see him . ''
Theodosia put up her hand and loosened her bonnet strings as if they were choking her .
She had been sick with the fear that Wesley would be dead before she got to him .
The relief was almost overwhelming .
`` But I must see him , '' she cried hysterically -- she , the calm , easy-going Dosia , hysterical -- `` I am his wife -- and oh , if he had died before I got here ! ''
The nurse came forward .
`` In that case I suppose you must , '' she conceded .
`` But he does not expect you .
I must prepare him for the surprise . ''
She turned to the door of a room opening off the kitchen , but Theodosia , who had hardly heard her , was before her .
She was inside the room before the nurse could prevent her .
Then she stood , afraid and trembling , her eyes searching the dim apartment hungrily .
When they fell on the occupant of the bed Theodosia started in bitter surprise .
All unconsciously she had been expecting to find Wesley as he had been when they parted .
Could this gaunt , haggard creature , with the unkempt beard and prematurely grey hair and the hollow , beseeching eyes , be the ruddy , boyish-faced husband of her youth ?
She gave a choking cry of pain and shame , and the sick man turned his head .
Their eyes met .
Amazement , incredulity , hope , dread , all flashed in succession over Wesley Brooke's lined face .
He raised himself feebly up .
`` Dosia , '' he murmured .
Theodosia staggered across the room and fell on her knees by the bed .
She clasped his head to her breast and kissed him again and again .
`` Oh , Wes , Wes , can you forgive me ?
I've been a wicked , stubborn woman -- and I've spoiled our lives .
Forgive me . ''
He held his thin trembling arms around her and devoured her face with his eyes .
`` Dosia , when did you come ?
Did you know I was sick ? ''
`` Wes , I can't talk till you say you've forgiven me . ''
`` Oh , Dosia , you have just as much to forgive .
We were both too set .
I should have been more considerate . ''
`` Just say , I forgive you , Dosia , ' '' she entreated .
`` I forgive you , Dosia , '' he said gently , `` and oh , it's so good to see you once more , darling .
There hasn't been an hour since I left you that I haven't longed for your sweet face .
If I had thought you really cared I 'd have gone back .
But I thought you didn't .
It broke my heart .
You did though , didn't you ? ''
`` Oh , yes , yes , yes , '' she said , holding him more closely , with her tears falling .
When the young doctor from Red Butte came that evening he found a great improvement in his patient .
Joy and happiness , those world-old physicians , had done what drugs and medicines had failed to do .
`` I 'm going to get better , Doc , '' said Wesley .
`` My wife has come and she's going to stay .
You didn't know I was married , did you ?
I'll tell you the story some day .
I proposed going back east , but Dosia says she 'd rather stay here .
I 'm the happiest man in Red Butte , Doc . ''
He squeezed Theodosia's hand as he had used to do long ago in Heatherton church , and Dosia smiled down at him .
There were no dimples now , but her smile was very sweet .
The ghostly finger of old Henry Ford , pointing down through the generations , had lost its power to brand with its malediction the life of these , his descendants .
Wesley and Theodosia had joined hands with their long-lost happiness .
