Cecily Foster came down the sloping , fir-fringed road from the village at a leisurely pace .
Usually she walked with a long , determined stride , but to-day the drowsy , mellowing influence of the Autumn afternoon was strong upon her and filled her with placid content .
Without being actively conscious of it , she was satisfied with the existing circumstances of her life .
It was half over now .
The half of it yet to be lived stretched before her , tranquil , pleasant and uneventful , like the afternoon , filled with unhurried duties and calmly interesting days , Cecily liked the prospect .
When she came to her own lane she paused , folding her hands on the top of the whitewashed gate , while she basked for a moment in the warmth that seemed cupped in the little grassy hollow hedged about with young fir-trees .
Before her lay sere , brooding fields sloping down to a sandy shore , where long foamy ripples were lapping with a murmur that threaded the hushed air like a faint minor melody .
On the crest of the little hill to her right was her home -- hers and Lucy Ellen's .
The house was an old-fashioned , weather-gray one , low in the eaves , with gables and porches overgrown with vines that had turned to wine-reds and rich bronzes in the October frosts .
On three sides it was closed in by tall old spruces , their outer sides bared and grim from long wrestling with the Atlantic winds , but their inner green and feathery .
On the fourth side a trim white paling shut in the flower garden before the front door .
Cecily could see the beds of purple and scarlet asters , making rich whorls of color under the parlor and sitting-room windows .
Lucy Ellen's bed was gayer and larger than Cecily's .
Lucy Ellen had always had better luck with flowers .
She could see old Boxer asleep on the front porch step and Lucy Ellen's white cat stretched out on the parlor window-sill .
There was no other sign of life about the place .
Cecily drew a long , leisurely breath of satisfaction .
`` After tea I'll dig up those dahlia roots , '' she said aloud .
`` They 'd ought to be up .
My , how blue and soft that sea is !
I never saw such a lovely day .
I've been gone longer than I expected .
I wonder if Lucy Ellen's been lonesome ? ''
When Cecily looked back from the misty ocean to the house , she was surprised to see a man coming with a jaunty step down the lane under the gnarled spruces .
She looked at him perplexedly .
He must be a stranger , for she was sure no man in Oriental walked like that .
`` Some agent has been pestering Lucy Ellen , I suppose , '' she muttered vexedly .
The stranger came on with an airy briskness utterly foreign to Orientalites .
Cecily opened the gate and went through .
They met under the amber-tinted sugar maple in the heart of the hollow .
As he passed , the man lifted his hat and bowed with an ingratiating smile .
He was about forty-five , well , although somewhat loudly dressed , and with an air of self-satisfied prosperity pervading his whole personality .
He had a heavy gold watch chain and a large seal ring on the hand that lifted his hat .
He was bald , with a high , Shaksperian forehead and a halo of sandy curls .
His face was ruddy and weak , but good-natured : his eyes were large and blue , and he had a little straw-colored moustache , with a juvenile twist and curl in it .
Cecily did not recognize him , yet there was something vaguely familiar about him .
She walked rapidly up to the house .
In the sitting-room she found Lucy Ellen peering out between the muslin window curtains .
When the latter turned there was an air of repressed excitement about her .
`` Who was that man , Lucy Ellen ? ''
Cecily asked .
To Cecily's amazement , Lucy Ellen blushed -- a warm , Spring-like flood of color that rolled over her delicate little face like a miracle of rejuvenescence .
`` Didn't you know him ?
That was Cromwell Biron , '' she simpered .
Although Lucy Ellen was forty and , in most respects , sensible , she could not help simpering upon occasion .
`` Cromwell Biron , '' repeated Cecily , in an emotionless voice .
She took off her bonnet mechanically , brushed the dust from its ribbons and bows and went to put it carefully away in its white box in the spare bedroom .
She felt as if she had had a severe shock , and she dared not ask anything more just then .
Lucy Ellen's blush had frightened her .
It seemed to open up dizzying possibilities of change .
`` But she promised -- she promised , '' said Cecily fiercely , under her breath .
While Cecily was changing her dress , Lucy Ellen was getting the tea ready in the little kitchen .
Now and then she broke out into singing , but always checked herself guiltily .
Cecily heard her and set her firm mouth a little firmer .
`` If a man had jilted me twenty years ago , I wouldn't be so overwhelmingly glad to see him when he came back -- especially if he had got fat and bald-headed , '' she added , her face involuntarily twitching into a smile .
Cecily , in spite of her serious expression and intense way of looking at life , had an irrepressible sense of humor .
Tea that evening was not the pleasant meal it usually was .
The two women were wont to talk animatedly to each other , and Cecily had many things to tell Lucy Ellen .
She did not tell them .
Neither did Lucy Ellen ask any questions , her ill-concealed excitement hanging around her like a festal garment .
Cecily's heart was on fire with alarm and jealousy .
She smiled a little cruelly as she buttered and ate her toast .
`` And so that was Cromwell Biron , '' she said with studied carelessness .
`` I thought there was something familiar about him .
When did he come home ? ''
`` He got to Oriental yesterday , '' fluttered back Lucy Ellen .
`` He's going to be home for two months .
We -- we had such an interesting talk this afternoon .
He -- he's as full of jokes as ever .
I wished you 'd been here . ''
This was a fib .
Cecily knew it .
`` I don't , then , '' she said contemptuously .
`` You know I never had much use for Cromwell Biron .
I think he had a face of his own to come down here to see you uninvited , after the way he treated you . ''
Lucy Ellen blushed scorchingly and was miserably silent .
`` He's changed terrible in his looks , '' went on Cecily relentlessly .
`` How bald he's got -- and fat !
To think of the spruce Cromwell Biron got to be bald and fat !
To be sure , he still has the same sheepish expression .
Will you pass me the currant jell , Lucy Ellen ? ''
`` I don't think he's so very fat , '' she said resentfully , when Cecily had left the table .
`` And I don't care if he is . ''
Twenty years before this , Biron had jilted Lucy Ellen Foster .
She was the prettiest girl in Oriental then , but the new school teacher over at the Crossways was prettier , with a dash of piquancy , which Lucy Ellen lacked , into the bargain .
Cromwell and the school teacher had run away and been married , and Lucy Ellen was left to pick up the tattered shreds of her poor romance as best she could .
She never had another lover .
She told herself that she would always be faithful to the one love of her life .
This sounded romantic , and she found a certain comfort in it .
She had been brought up by her uncle and aunt .
When they died she and her cousin , Cecily Foster , found themselves , except for each other , alone in the world .
Cecily loved Lucy Ellen as a sister .
But she believed that Lucy Ellen would yet marry , and her heart sank at the prospect of being left without a soul to love and care for .
It was Lucy Ellen that had first proposed their mutual promise , but Cecily had grasped at it eagerly .
The two women , verging on decisive old maidenhood , solemnly promised each other that they would never marry , and would always live together .
From that time Cecily's mind had been at ease .
In her eyes a promise was a sacred thing .
The next evening at prayer-meeting Cromwell Biron received quite an ovation from old friends and neighbors .
Cromwell had been a favorite in his boyhood .
He had now the additional glamour of novelty and reputed wealth .
He was beaming and expansive .
He went into the choir to help sing .
Lucy Ellen sat beside him , and they sang from the same book .
Two red spots burned on her thin cheeks , and she had a cluster of lavender chrysanthemums pinned on her jacket .
She looked almost girlish , and Cromwell Biron gazed at her with sidelong admiration , while Cecily watched them both fiercely from her pew .
She knew that Cromwell Biron had come home , wooing his old love .
`` But he sha n't get her , '' Cecily whispered into her hymnbook .
Somehow it was a comfort to articulate the words , `` She promised . ''
On the church steps Cromwell offered his arm to Lucy Ellen with a flourish .
She took it shyly , and they started down the road in the crisp Autumn moonlight .
For the first time in ten years Cecily walked home from prayer-meeting alone .
She went up-stairs and flung herself on her bed , reckless for once , of her second best hat and gown .
Lucy Ellen did not venture to ask Cromwell in .
She was too much in awe of Cecily for that .
But she loitered with him at the gate until the grandfather's clock in the hall struck eleven .
Then Cromwell went away , whistling gaily , with Lucy Ellen's chrysanthemum in his buttonhole , and Lucy Ellen went in and cried half the night .
But Cecily did not cry .
She lay savagely awake until morning .
`` Cromwell Biron is courting you again , '' she said bluntly to Lucy Ellen at the breakfast table .
Lucy Ellen blushed nervously .
`` Oh , nonsense , Cecily , '' she protested with a simper .
`` It isn't nonsense , '' said Cecily calmly .
`` He is .
There is no fool like an old fool , and Cromwell Biron never had much sense .
The presumption of him ! ''
Lucy Ellen's hands trembled as she put her teacup down .
`` He's not so very old , '' she said faintly , `` and everybody but you likes him -- and he's well-to-do .
I don't see that there's any presumption . ''
`` Maybe not -- if you look at it so .
You 're very forgiving , Lucy Ellen .
You've forgotten how he treated you once . ''
`` No -- o -- o , I haven't , '' faltered Lucy Ellen .
`` Anyway , '' said Cecily coldly , `` you shouldn't encourage his attentions , Lucy Ellen ; you know you couldn't marry him even if he asked you .
You promised . ''
All the fitful color went out of Lucy Ellen's face .
Under Cecily's pitiless eyes she wilted and drooped .
`` I know , '' she said deprecatingly , `` I haven't forgotten .
You are talking nonsense , Cecily .
I like to see Cromwell , and he likes to see me because I 'm almost the only one of his old set that is left .
He feels lonesome in Oriental now . ''
Lucy Ellen lifted her fawn-colored little head more erectly at the last of her protest .
She had saved her self-respect .
In the month that followed Cromwell Biron pressed his suit persistently , unintimidated by Cecily's antagonism .
October drifted into November and the chill , drear days came .
To Cecily the whole outer world seemed the dismal reflex of her pain-bitten heart .
Yet she constantly laughed at herself , too , and her laughter was real if bitter .
One evening she came home late from a neighbor's .
Cromwell Biron passed her in the hollow under the bare boughs of the maple that were outlined against the silvery moonlit sky .
When Cecily went into the house , Lucy Ellen opened the parlor door .
She was very pale , but her eyes burned in her face and her hands were clasped before her .
`` I wish you 'd come in here for a few minutes , Cecily , '' she said feverishly .
Cecily followed silently into the room .
`` Cecily , '' she said faintly , `` Cromwell was here to-night .
He asked me to marry him .
I told him to come to-morrow night for his answer . ''
She paused and looked imploringly at Cecily .
Cecily did not speak .
She stood tall and unrelenting by the table .
The rigidity of her face and figure smote Lucy Ellen like a blow .
She threw out her bleached little hands and spoke with a sudden passion utterly foreign to her .
`` Cecily , I want to marry him .
I -- I -- love him .
I always have .
I never thought of this when I promised .
Oh , Cecily , you'll let me off my promise , won't you ? ''
`` No , '' said Cecily .
It was all she said .
Lucy Ellen's hands fell to her sides , and the light went out of her face .
`` You won't ? ''
she said hopelessly .
Cecily went out .
At the door she turned .
`` When John Edwards asked me to marry him six years ago , I said no for your sake .
To my mind a promise is a promise .
But you were always weak and romantic , Lucy Ellen . ''
Lucy Ellen made no response .
She stood limply on the hearth-rug like a faded blossom bitten by frost .
After Cromwell Biron had gone away the next evening , with all his brisk jauntiness shorn from him for the time , Lucy Ellen went up to Cecily's room .
She stood for a moment in the narrow doorway , with the lamplight striking upward with a gruesome effect on her wan face .
`` I've sent him away , '' she said lifelessly .
`` I've kept my promise , Cecily . ''
There was silence for a moment .
Cecily did not know what to say .
Suddenly Lucy Ellen burst out bitterly .
`` I wish I was dead ! ''
Then she turned swiftly and ran across the hall to her own room .
Cecily gave a little moan of pain .
This was her reward for all the love she had lavished on Lucy Ellen .
`` Anyway , it is all over , '' she said , looking dourly into the moonlit boughs of the firs ; `` Lucy Ellen'll get over it .
When Cromwell is gone she'll forget all about him .
I 'm not going to fret .
She promised , and she wanted the promise first . ''
During the next fortnight tragedy held grim sway in the little weather-gray house among the firs -- a tragedy tempered with grim comedy for Cecily , who , amid all her agony , could not help being amused at Lucy Ellen's romantic way of sorrowing .
Lucy Ellen did her mornings ' work listlessly and drooped through the afternoons .
Cecily would have felt it as a relief if Lucy Ellen had upbraided her , but after her outburst on the night she sent Cromwell away , Lucy Ellen never uttered a word of reproach or complaint .
One evening Cecily made a neighborly call in the village .
Cromwell Biron happened to be there and gallantly insisted upon seeing her home .
She understood from Cromwell's unaltered manner that Lucy Ellen had not told him why she had refused him .
She felt a sudden admiration for her cousin .
When they reached the house Cromwell halted suddenly in the banner of light that streamed from the sitting-room window .
They saw Lucy Ellen sitting alone before the fire , her arms folded on the table , and her head bowed on them .
Her white cat sat unnoticed at the table beside her .
Cecily gave a gasp of surrender .
`` You 'd better come in , '' she said , harshly .
`` Lucy Ellen looks lonesome . ''
Cromwell muttered sheepishly , `` I 'm afraid I wouldn't be company for her .
Lucy Ellen doesn't like me much -- '' `` Oh , doesn't she ! ''
said Cecily , bitterly .
`` She likes you better than she likes me for all I've -- but it's no matter .
It's been all my fault -- she'll explain .
Tell her I said she could .
Come in , I say . ''
She caught the still reluctant Cromwell by the arm and fairly dragged him over the geranium beds and through the front door .
She opened the sitting-room door and pushed him in .
Lucy Ellen rose in amazement .
Over Cromwell's bald head loomed Cecily's dark face , tragic and determined .
`` Here's your beau , Lucy Ellen , '' she said , `` and I give you back your promise . ''
She shut the door upon the sudden illumination of Lucy Ellen's face and went up-stairs with the tears rolling down her cheeks .
`` It's my turn to wish I was dead , '' she muttered .
Then she laughed hysterically .
`` That goose of a Cromwell !
How queer he did look standing there , frightened to death of Lucy Ellen .
Poor little Lucy Ellen !
Well , I hope he'll be good to her . ''
