When Lucy Rose met Aunt Cyrilla coming downstairs , somewhat flushed and breathless from her ascent to the garret , with a big , flat-covered basket hanging over her plump arm , she gave a little sigh of despair .
Lucy Rose had done her brave best for some years -- in fact , ever since she had put up her hair and lengthened her skirts -- to break Aunt Cyrilla of the habit of carrying that basket with her every time she went to Pembroke ; but Aunt Cyrilla still insisted on taking it , and only laughed at what she called Lucy Rose 's `` finicky notions . ''
Lucy Rose had a horrible , haunting idea that it was extremely provincial for her aunt always to take the big basket , packed full of country good things , whenever she went to visit Edward and Geraldine .
Geraldine was so stylish , and might think it queer ; and then Aunt Cyrilla always would carry it on her arm and give cookies and apples and molasses taffy out of it to every child she encountered and , just as often as not , to older folks too .
Lucy Rose , when she went to town with Aunt Cyrilla , felt chagrined over this -- all of which goes to prove that Lucy was as yet very young and had a great deal to learn in this world .
That troublesome worry over what Geraldine would think nerved her to make a protest in this instance .
`` Now , Aunt C'rilla , '' she pleaded , `` you 're surely not going to take that funny old basket to Pembroke this time -- Christmas Day and all . '' ''
` Deed and ` deed I am , '' returned Aunt Cyrilla briskly , as she put it on the table and proceeded to dust it out .
`` I never went to see Edward and Geraldine since they were married that I didn't take a basket of good things along with me for them , and I 'm not going to stop now .
As for it 's being Christmas , all the more reason .
Edward is always real glad to get some of the old farmhouse goodies .
He says they beat city cooking all hollow , and so they do . ''
`` But it 's so countrified , '' moaned Lucy Rose .
`` Well , I am countrified , '' said Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and so are you .
And what 's more , I don't see that it 's anything to be ashamed of .
you've got some real silly pride about you , Lucy Rose .
you'll grow out of it in time , but just now it is giving you a lot of trouble . ''
`` The basket is a lot of trouble , '' said Lucy Rose crossly .
`` You 're always mislaying it or afraid you will .
And it does look so funny to be walking through the streets with that big , bulgy basket hanging on your arm . ''
`` I 'm not a mite worried about its looks , '' returned Aunt Cyrilla calmly .
`` As for its being a trouble , why , maybe it is , but I have that , and other people have the pleasure of it .
Edward and Geraldine don't need it -- I know that -- but there may be those that will .
And if it hurts your feelings to walk ` longside of a countrified old lady with a countrified basket , why , you can just fall behind , as it were . ''
Aunt Cyrilla nodded and smiled good-humouredly , and Lucy Rose , though she privately held to her own opinion , had to smile too .
`` Now , let me see , '' said Aunt Cyrilla reflectively , tapping the snowy kitchen table with the point of her plump , dimpled forefinger , `` what shall I take ?
That big fruit cake for one thing -- Edward does like my fruit cake ; and that cold boiled tongue for another .
Those three mince pies too , they 'd spoil before we got back or your uncle 'd make himself sick eating them -- mince pie is his besetting sin .
And that little stone bottle full of cream -- Geraldine may carry any amount of style , but I've yet to see her look down on real good country cream , Lucy Rose ; and another bottle of my raspberry vinegar .
That plate of jelly cookies and doughnuts will please the children and fill up the chinks , and you can bring me that box of ice-cream candy out of the pantry , and that bag of striped candy sticks your uncle brought home from the corner last night .
And apples , of course -- three or four dozen of those good eaters -- and a little pot of my greengage preserves -- Edward 'll like that .
And some sandwiches and pound cake for a snack for ourselves .
Now , I guess that will do for eatables .
The presents for the children can go in on top .
There 's a doll for Daisy and the little boat your uncle made for Ray and a tatted lace handkerchief apiece for the twins , and the crochet hood for the baby .
Now , is that all ? ''
`` There 's a cold roast chicken in the pantry , '' said Lucy Rose wickedly , `` and the pig Uncle Leo killed is hanging up in the porch .
couldn't you put them in too ? ''
Aunt Cyrilla smiled broadly .
`` Well , I guess we'll leave the pig alone ; but since you have reminded me of it , the chicken may as well go in .
I can make room . ''
Lucy Rose , in spite of her prejudices , helped with the packing and , not having been trained under Aunt Cyrilla 's eye for nothing , did it very well too , with much clever economy of space .
But when Aunt Cyrilla had put in as a finishing touch a big bouquet of pink and white everlastings , and tied the bulging covers down with a firm hand , Lucy Rose stood over the basket and whispered vindictively : `` Some day I 'm going to burn this basket -- when I get courage enough .
Then there 'll be an end of lugging it everywhere we go like a -- like an old market-woman . ''
Uncle Leopold came in just then , shaking his head dubiously .
He was not going to spend Christmas with Edward and Geraldine , and perhaps the prospect of having to cook and eat his Christmas dinner all alone made him pessimistic .
`` I mistrust you folks won't get to Pembroke tomorrow , '' he said sagely .
`` It 's going to storm . ''
Aunt Cyrilla did not worry over this .
She believed matters of this kind were fore-ordained , and she slept calmly .
But Lucy Rose got up three times in the night to see if it were storming , and when she did sleep had horrible nightmares of struggling through blinding snowstorms dragging Aunt Cyrilla 's Christmas basket along with her .
It was not snowing in the early morning , and Uncle Leopold drove Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose and the basket to the station , four miles off .
When they reached there the air was thick with flying flakes .
The stationmaster sold them their tickets with a grim face .
`` If there 's any more snow comes , the trains might as well keep Christmas too , '' he said .
`` There 's been so much snow already that traffic is blocked half the time , and now there ain't no place to shovel the snow off onto . ''
Aunt Cyrilla said that if the train were to get to Pembroke in time for Christmas , it would get there ; and she opened her basket and gave the stationmaster and three small boys an apple apiece .
`` That 's the beginning , '' groaned Lucy Rose to herself .
When their train came along Aunt Cyrilla established herself in one seat and her basket in another , and looked beamingly around her at her fellow travellers .
These were few in number -- a delicate little woman at the end of the car , with a baby and four other children , a young girl across the aisle with a pale , pretty face , a sunburned lad three seats ahead in a khaki uniform , a very handsome , imposing old lady in a sealskin coat ahead of him , and a thin young man with spectacles opposite .
`` A minister , '' reflected Aunt Cyrilla , beginning to classify , `` who takes better care of other folks ' souls than of his own body ; and that woman in the sealskin is discontented and cross at something -- got up too early to catch the train , maybe ; and that young chap must be one of the boys not long out of the hospital .
That woman 's children look as if they hadn't enjoyed a square meal since they were born ; and if that girl across from me has a mother , I 'd like to know what the woman means , letting her daughter go from home in this weather in clothes like that . ''
Lucy Rose merely wondered uncomfortably what the others thought of Aunt Cyrilla 's basket .
They expected to reach Pembroke that night , but as the day wore on the storm grew worse .
Twice the train had to stop while the train hands dug it out .
The third time it could not go on .
It was dusk when the conductor came through the train , replying brusquely to the questions of the anxious passengers .
`` A nice lookout for Christmas -- no , impossible to go on or back -- track blocked for miles -- what 's that , madam ?
-- no , no station near -- woods for miles .
We 're here for the night .
These storms of late have played the mischief with everything . ''
`` Oh , dear , '' groaned Lucy Rose .
Aunt Cyrilla looked at her basket complacently .
`` At any rate , we won't starve , '' she said .
The pale , pretty girl seemed indifferent .
The sealskin lady looked crosser than ever .
The khaki boy said , `` Just my luck , '' and two of the children began to cry .
Aunt Cyrilla took some apples and striped candy sticks from her basket and carried them to them .
She lifted the oldest into her ample lap and soon had them all around her , laughing and contented .
The rest of the travellers straggled over to the corner and drifted into conversation .
The khaki boy said it was hard lines not to get home for Christmas , after all .
`` I was invalided from South Africa three months ago , and I've been in the hospital at Netley ever since .
Reached Halifax three days ago and telegraphed the old folks I 'd eat my Christmas dinner with them , and to have an extra-big turkey because I didn't have any last year .
They'll be badly disappointed . ''
He looked disappointed too .
One khaki sleeve hung empty by his side .
Aunt Cyrilla passed him an apple .
`` We were all going down to Grandpa 's for Christmas , '' said the little mother 's oldest boy dolefully .
`` we've never been there before , and it 's just too bad . ''
He looked as if he wanted to cry but thought better of it and bit off a mouthful of candy .
`` Will there be any Santa Claus on the train ? ''
demanded his small sister tearfully .
`` Jack says there won't . ''
`` I guess he'll find you out , '' said Aunt Cyrilla reassuringly .
The pale , pretty girl came up and took the baby from the tired mother .
`` What a dear little fellow , '' she said softly .
`` Are you going home for Christmas too ? ''
asked Aunt Cyrilla .
The girl shook her head .
`` I haven't any home .
I 'm just a shop girl out of work at present , and I 'm going to Pembroke to look for some . ''
Aunt Cyrilla went to her basket and took out her box of cream candy .
`` I guess we might as well enjoy ourselves .
Let 's eat it all up and have a good time .
Maybe we'll get down to Pembroke in the morning . ''
The little group grew cheerful as they nibbled , and even the pale girl brightened up .
The little mother told Aunt Cyrilla her story aside .
She had been long estranged from her family , who had disapproved of her marriage .
Her husband had died the previous summer , leaving her in poor circumstances .
`` Father wrote to me last week and asked me to let bygones be bygones and come home for Christmas .
I was so glad .
And the children 's hearts were set on it .
It seems too bad that we are not to get there .
I have to be back at work the morning after Christmas . ''
The khaki boy came up again and shared the candy .
He told amusing stories of campaigning in South Africa .
The minister came too , and listened , and even the sealskin lady turned her head over her shoulder .
By and by the children fell asleep , one on Aunt Cyrilla 's lap and one on Lucy Rose 's , and two on the seat .
Aunt Cyrilla and the pale girl helped the mother make up beds for them .
The minister gave his overcoat and the sealskin lady came forward with a shawl .
`` This will do for the baby , '' she said .
`` We must get up some Santa Claus for these youngsters , '' said the khaki boy .
`` Let 's hang their stockings on the wall and fill 'em up as best we can .
I've nothing about me but some hard cash and a jack-knife .
I'll give each of 'em a quarter and the boy can have the knife . ''
`` I've nothing but money either , '' said the sealskin lady regretfully .
Aunt Cyrilla glanced at the little mother .
She had fallen asleep with her head against the seat-back .
`` I've got a basket over there , '' said Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and I've some presents in it that I was taking to my nephew 's children .
I 'm going to give 'em to these .
As for the money , I think the mother is the one for it to go to .
She 's been telling me her story , and a pitiful one it is .
Let 's make up a little purse among us for a Christmas present . ''
The idea met with favour .
The khaki boy passed his cap and everybody contributed .
The sealskin lady put in a crumpled note .
When Aunt Cyrilla straightened it out she saw that it was for twenty dollars .
Meanwhile , Lucy Rose had brought the basket .
She smiled at Aunt Cyrilla as she lugged it down the aisle and Aunt Cyrilla smiled back .
Lucy Rose had never touched that basket of her own accord before .
Ray 's boat went to Jacky , and Daisy 's doll to his oldest sister , the twins ' lace handkerchiefs to the two smaller girls and the hood to the baby .
Then the stockings were filled up with doughnuts and jelly cookies and the money was put in an envelope and pinned to the little mother 's jacket .
`` That baby is such a dear little fellow , '' said the sealskin lady gently .
`` He looks something like my little son .
He died eighteen Christmases ago . ''
Aunt Cyrilla put her hand over the lady 's kid glove .
`` So did mine , '' she said .
Then the two women smiled tenderly at each other .
Afterwards they rested from their labours and all had what Aunt Cyrilla called a `` snack '' of sandwiches and pound cake .
The khaki boy said he hadn't tasted anything half so good since he left home .
`` They didn't give us pound cake in South Africa , '' he said .
When morning came the storm was still raging .
The children wakened and went wild with delight over their stockings .
The little mother found her envelope and tried to utter thanks and broke down ; and nobody knew what to say or do , when the conductor fortunately came in and made a diversion by telling them they might as well resign themselves to spending Christmas on the train .
`` This is serious , '' said the khaki boy , `` when you consider that we've no provisions .
don't mind for myself , used to half rations or no rations at all .
But these kiddies will have tremendous appetites . ''
Then Aunt Cyrilla rose to the occasion .
`` I've got some emergency rations here , '' she announced .
`` There 's plenty for all and we'll have our Christmas dinner , although a cold one .
Breakfast first thing .
There 's a sandwich apiece left and we must fill up on what is left of the cookies and doughnuts and save the rest for a real good spread at dinner time .
The only thing is , I haven't any bread . ''
`` I've a box of soda crackers , '' said the little mother eagerly .
Nobody in that car will ever forget that Christmas .
To begin with , after breakfast they had a concert .
The khaki boy gave two recitations , sang three songs , and gave a whistling solo .
Lucy Rose gave three recitations and the minister a comic reading .
The pale shop girl sang two songs .
It was agreed that the khaki boy 's whistling solo was the best number , and Aunt Cyrilla gave him the bouquet of everlastings as a reward of merit .
Then the conductor came in with the cheerful news that the storm was almost over and he thought the track would be cleared in a few hours .
`` If we can get to the next station we'll be all right , '' he said .
`` The branch joins the main line there and the tracks will be clear . ''
At noon they had dinner .
The train hands were invited in to share it .
The minister carved the chicken with the brakeman 's jack-knife and the khaki boy cut up the tongue and the mince pies , while the sealskin lady mixed the raspberry vinegar with its due proportion of water .
Bits of paper served as plates .
The train furnished a couple of glasses , a tin pint cup was discovered and given to the children , Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose and the sealskin lady drank , turn about , from the latter 's graduated medicine glass , the shop girl and the little mother shared one of the empty bottles , and the khaki boy , the minister , and the train men drank out of the other bottle .
Everybody declared they had never enjoyed a meal more in their lives .
Certainly it was a merry one , and Aunt Cyrilla 's cooking was never more appreciated ; indeed , the bones of the chicken and the pot of preserves were all that was left .
They could not eat the preserves because they had no spoons , so Aunt Cyrilla gave them to the little mother .
When all was over , a hearty vote of thanks was passed to Aunt Cyrilla and her basket .
The sealskin lady wanted to know how she made her pound cake , and the khaki boy asked for her receipt for jelly cookies .
And when two hours later the conductor came in and said the snowploughs had got along and they 'd soon be starting , they all wondered if it could really be less than twenty-four hours since they met .
`` I feel as if I 'd been campaigning with you all my life , '' said the khaki boy .
At the next station they all parted .
The little mother and the children had to take the next train back home .
The minister stayed there , and the khaki boy and the sealskin lady changed trains .
The sealskin lady shook Aunt Cyrilla 's hand .
She no longer looked discontented or cross .
`` This has been the pleasantest Christmas I have ever spent , '' she said heartily .
`` I shall never forget that wonderful basket of yours .
The little shop girl is going home with me .
I've promised her a place in my husband 's store . ''
When Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose reached Pembroke there was nobody to meet them because everyone had given up expecting them .
It was not far from the station to Edward 's house and Aunt Cyrilla elected to walk .
`` I'll carry the basket , '' said Lucy Rose .
Aunt Cyrilla relinquished it with a smile .
Lucy Rose smiled too .
`` It 's a blessed old basket , '' said the latter , `` and I love it .
Please forget all the silly things I ever said about it , Aunt C'rilla . ''
