Feeling that I have been unusually fortunate in my knowledge of a choice and pleasing variety of this least appreciated portion of the human race , I have a fancy to record some of my experiences , hoping that it may awaken an interest in other minds , and cause other people to cultivate the delightful , but too often neglected boys , who now run to waste , so to speak .
I have often wondered what they thought of the peculiar treatment they receive , even at the hands of their nearest friends .
While they are rosy , roly-poly little fellows they are petted and praised , adorned and adored , till it is a miracle that they are not utterly ruined .
But the moment they outgrow their babyhood their trials begin , and they are regarded as nuisances till they are twenty-one , when they are again received into favor .
Yet that very time of neglect is the period when they most need all manner of helps , and ought to have them .
I like boys and oysters raw ; so , though good manners are always pleasing , I don't mind the rough outside burr which repels most people , and perhaps that is the reason why the burrs open and let me see the soft lining and taste the sweet nut hidden inside .
My first well-beloved boy was a certain Frank , to whom I clung at the age of seven with a devotion which I fear he did not appreciate .
There were six girls in the house , but I would have nothing to say to them , preferring to tag after Frank , and perfectly happy when he allowed me to play with him .
I regret to say that the small youth was something of a tyrant , and one of his favorite amusements was trying to make me cry by slapping my hands with books , hoop-sticks , shoes , anything that came along capable of giving a good stinging blow .
I believe I endured these marks of friendship with the fortitude of a young Indian , and felt fully repaid for a blistered palm by hearing Frank tell the other boys , ` She's a brave little thing , and you can't make her cry . '
My chief joy was in romping with him in the long galleries of a piano manufactory behind our house .
What bliss it was to mount one of the cars on which the workmen rolled heavy loads from room to room , and to go thundering down the inclined plains , regardless of the crash that usually awaited us at the bottom !
If I could have played foot-ball on the Common with my Frank and Billy Babcock , life could have offered me no greater joy at that period .
As the prejudices of society forbid this sport , I revenged myself by driving hoop all around the mall without stopping , which the boys could not do .
I can remember certain happy evenings , when we snuggled in sofa corners and planned tricks and ate stolen goodies , and sometimes Frank would put his curly head in my lap and let me stroke it when he was tired .
What the girls did I don't recollect ; their domestic plays were not to my taste , and the only figure that stands out from the dimness of the past is that jolly boy with a twinkling eye .
This memory would be quite radiant but for one sad thing -- a deed that cut me to the soul then , and which I have never quite forgiven in all these years .
On one occasion I did something very naughty , and when called up for judgment fled to the dining-room , locked the door , and from my stronghold defied the whole world .
I could have made my own terms , for it was near dinner time and the family must eat ; but , alas for the treachery of the human heart !
Frank betrayed me .
He climbed in at the window , unlocked the door , and delivered me up to the foe .
Nay , he even defended the base act , and helped bear the struggling culprit to imprisonment .
That nearly broke my heart , for I believed he would stand by me as staunchly as I always stood by him .
It was a sad blow , and I couldn't love or trust him any more .
Peanuts and candy , ginger-snaps and car-rides were unavailing ; even foot-ball could not reunite the broken friendship , and to this day I recollect the pang that entered my little heart when I lost my faith in the loyalty of my first boy .
The second attachment was of quite a different sort , and had a happier ending .
At the mature age of ten , I left home for my first visit to a family of gay and kindly people in -- well why not say right out ?
-- Providence .
There were no children , and at first I did not mind this , as every one petted me , especially one of the young men named Christopher .
So kind and patient , yet so merry was this good Christy that I took him for my private and particular boy , and loved him dearly ; for he got me out of innumerable scrapes , and never was tired of amusing the restless little girl who kept the family in a fever of anxiety by her pranks .
He never laughed at her mishaps and mistakes , never played tricks upon her like a certain William , who composed the most trying nicknames , and wickedly goaded the wild visitor into all manner of naughtiness .
Christy stood up for her through everything ; let her ride the cows , feed the pigs , bang on the piano , and race all over the spice mill , feasting on cinnamon and cloves ; brought her down from housetops and fished her out of brooks ; never scolded , and never seemed tired of the troublesome friendship of little Torment .
In a week I had exhausted every amusement and was desperately homesick .
It has always been my opinion that I should have been speedily restored to the bosom of my family but for Christy , and but for him I should assuredly have run away before the second week was out .
He kept me , and in the hour of my disgrace stood by me like a man and a brother .
One afternoon , inspired by a spirit of benevolence , enthusiastic but short-sighted , I collected several poor children in the barn , and regaled them on cake and figs , helping myself freely to the treasures of the pantry without asking leave , meaning to explain afterward .
Being discovered before the supplies were entirely exhausted , the patience of the long-suffering matron gave out , and I was ordered up to the garret to reflect upon my sins , and the pleasing prospect of being sent home with the character of the worst child ever known .
My sufferings were deep as I sat upon a fuzzy little trunk all alone in the dull garret , thinking how hard it was to do right , and wondering why I was scolded for feeding the poor when we were expressly bidden to do so .
I felt myself an outcast , and bewailed the disgrace I had brought upon my family .
Nobody could possibly love such a bad child ; and if the mice were to come and eat me then and there -- à la Bishop Hatto -- it would only be a relief to my friends .
At this dark moment I heard Christy say below , ` She meant it kindly , so I wouldn't mind , Fanny ; ' and then up came my boy full of sympathy and comfort .
Seeing the tragic expression of my face , he said not a word , but , sitting down in an old chair , took me on his knee and held me close and quietly , letting the action speak for itself .
It did most eloquently ; for the kind arm seemed to take me back from that dreadful exile , and the friendly face to assure me without words that I had not sinned beyond forgiveness .
I had not shed a tear before , but now I cried tempestuously , and clung to him like a shipwrecked little mariner in a storm .
Neither spoke , but he held me fast and let me cry myself to sleep ; for , when the shower was over , a pensive peace fell upon me , and the dim old garret seemed not a prison , but a haven of refuge , since my boy came to share it with me .
How long I slept I don't know , but it must have been an hour , at least ; yet my good Christy never stirred , only waited patiently till I woke up in the twilight , and was not afraid because he was there .
He took me down as meek as a mouse , and kept me by him all that trying evening , screening me from jokes , rebukes , and sober looks ; and when I went to bed he came up to kiss me , and to assure me that this awful circumstance should not be reported at home .
This took a load off my heart , and I remember fervently thanking him , and telling him I never would forget it .
I never have , though he died long ago , and others have probably forgotten all about the naughty prank .
I often longed to ask him how he knew the surest way to win a child's heart by the patience , sympathy , and tender little acts that have kept his memory green for nearly thirty years .
Cy was a comrade after my own heart , and for a summer or two we kept the neighbourhood in a ferment by our adventures and hair-breadth escapes .
I think I never knew a boy so full of mischief , and my opportunities of judging have been manifold .
He did not get into scrapes himself , but possessed a splendid talent for deluding others into them , and then morally remarking , ` There , I told you so ! '
His way of saying ` You dars'nt do this or that ' was like fire to powder ; and why I still live in the possession of all my limbs and senses is a miracle to those who know my youthful friendship with Cy .
It was he who incited me to jump off of the highest beam in the barn , to be borne home on a board with a pair of sprained ankles .
It was he who dared me to rub my eyes with red peppers , and then sympathisingly led me home blind and roaring with pain .
It was he who solemnly assured me that all the little pigs would die in agony if their tails were not cut off , and won me to hold thirteen little squealers while the operation was performed .
Those thirteen innocent pink tails haunt me yet , and the memory of that deed has given me a truly Jewish aversion to pork .
I did not know him long , but he was a kindred soul , and must have a place in my list of boys .
He is a big , brown man now , and , having done his part in the war , is at work on his farm .
We meet sometimes , and though we try to be dignified and proper , it is quite impossible ; there is a sly twinkle in Cy's eye that upsets my gravity , and we always burst out laughing at the memory of our early frolics .
My Augustus !
oh , my Augustus !
my first little lover , and the most romantic of my boys .
At fifteen I met this charming youth , and thought I had found my fate .
It was at a spelling school in a little country town where I , as a stranger and visitor from the city , was an object of interest .
Painfully conscious of this fact , I sat in a corner trying to look easy and elegant , with a large red bow under my chin , and a carnelian ring in full view .
Among the boys and girls who frolicked about me , I saw one lad of seventeen with ` large blue eyes , a noble brow , and a beautiful straight nose , ' as I described him in a letter to my sister .
This attractive youth had a certain air of refinement and ease of manner that the others lacked ; and when I found he was the minister's son , I felt that I might admire him without loss of dignity .
` Imagine my sensations , ' as Miss Burney's Evelina says , when this boy came and talked to me , a little bashfully at first , but soon quite freely , and invited me to a huckleberry party next day .
I had observed that he was one of the best spellers .
I also observed that his language was quite elegant ; he even quoted Byron , and rolled his eyes in a most engaging manner , not to mention that he asked who gave me my ring , and said he depended on escorting me to the berry pasture .
` Dear me , how interesting it was !
and when I found myself , next day , sitting under a tree in the sunny field , full of boys and girls , all more or less lovering , with the amiable Augustus at my feet , gallantly supplying me with bushes to strip while we talked about books and poetry , I really felt as if I had got into a novel , and enjoyed it immensely .
I believe a dim idea that Gus was sentimental hovered in my mind , but I would not encourage it , though I laughed in my sleeve when he was spouting Latin for my benefit , and was uncertain whether to box his ears or simper later in the day , when he languished over the gate , and said he thought chestnut hair the loveliest in the world .
Poor , dear boy !
how innocent and soft-hearted and full of splendid dreams he was , and what deliciously romantic times we had floating on the pond , while the frogs sung to his accordion , as he tried to say unutterable things with his honest blue eyes .
It makes me shiver now to think of the mosquitoes and the damp ; but it was Pauline and Claude Melnotte then , and when I went home we promised to be true to one another , and write every week during the year he was away at school .
We parted -- not in tears by any means ; that sort of nonsense comes later , when the romance is less childish -- but quite jolly and comfortable , and I hastened to pour forth the thrilling tale to my faithful sister , who approved of the match , being a perfect ` mush of sentiment ' herself .
I fear it was not a very ardent flame , however , for Gus did not write every week , and I did not care a bit ; nevertheless , I kept his picture and gave it a sentimental sigh when I happened to think of it , while he sent messages now and then , and devoted himself to his studies like an ambitious boy as he was .
I hardly expected to see him again , but soon after the year was out , to my great surprise , he called .
I was so fluttered by the appearance of his card that I rather lost my head , and did such a silly thing that it makes me laugh even now .
He liked chestnut hair , and , pulling out my combs , I rushed down , theatrically dishevelled , hoping to impress my lover with my ardour and my charms .
I expected to find little Gus ; but , to my great confusion , a tall being with a beaver in his hand rose to meet me , looking so big and handsome and generally imposing that I could not recover myself for several minutes , and mentally wailed for my combs , feeling like an untidy simpleton .
I don't know whether he thought me a little cracked or not , but he was very friendly and pleasant , and told me his plans , and hoped I would make another visit , and smoothed his beaver , and let me see his tail-coat , and behaved himself like a dear , conceited , clever boy .
He did not allude to our love-passages , being shy , and I blessed him for it ; for really , I don't know what rash thing I might have done under the exciting circumstances .
Just as he was going , however , he forgot his cherished hat for a minute , put out both hands , and said heartily , with his old boyish laugh , -- ` Now you will come , and we'll go boating and berrying , and all the rest of it again , won't we ? '
The blue eyes were full of fun and feeling , too , I fancied , as I blushingly retired behind my locks and gave the promise .
But I never went , and never saw my little lover any more , for in a few weeks he was dead of a fever , brought on by too much study , -- and so ended the sad history of my fourth boy .
After this , for many years , I was a boyless being ; but was so busy I did not feel my destitute condition till I went to the hospital during the war , and found my little sergeant .
His story has been told elsewhere , but the sequel to it is a pleasant one , for Baby B. still writes to me now and then , asks advice about his future , and gladdens me with good news of his success as a business man in Kansas .
As if to atone for the former dearth , a sudden shower of most superior boys fell upon me , after I recovered from my campaign .
Some of the very best sort it was my fortune to know and like -- real gentlemen , yet boys still -- and jolly times they had , stirring up the quiet old town with their energetic society .
There was W. , a stout , amiable youth , who would stand in the middle of a strawberry patch with his hands in his pockets and let us feed him luxuriously .
B. , a delightful scapegrace , who came once a week to confess his sins , beat his breast in despair , vow awful vows of repentance , and then cheerfully depart to break every one of them in the next twenty-four hours .
S. , the gentle-hearted giant ; J. , the dandy ; sober , sensible B. ; and E. , the young knight without reproach or fear .
But my especial boy of the batch was A. -- proud and cold and shy to other people , sad and serious sometimes when his good heart and tender conscience showed him his short-comings , but so grateful for sympathy and a kind word .
I could not get at him as easily as I could the other lads , but , thanks to Dickens , I found him out at last .
We played Dolphus and Sophy Tetterby in the ` Haunted Man , ' at one of the school festivals ; and during the rehearsals I discovered that my Dolphus was -- permit the expression , oh , well-bred readers !
-- a trump .
What fun we had to be sure , acting the droll and pathetic scenes together , with a swarm of little Tetterbys skirmishing about us !
From that time he has been my Dolphus and I his Sophy , and my yellow-haired laddie don't forget me , though he has a younger Sophy now , and some small Tetterbys of his own .
He writes just the same affectionate letters as he used to do , though I , less faithful , am too busy to answer them .
But the best and dearest of all my flock was my Polish boy , Ladislas Wisniewski -- two hiccoughs and a sneeze will give you the name perfectly .
Six years ago , as I went down to my early breakfast at our Pension in Vevey , I saw that a stranger had arrived .
He was a tall youth , of eighteen or twenty , with a thin , intelligent face , and the charmingly polite manners of a foreigner .
As the other boarders came in , one by one , they left the door open , and a draught of cold autumn air blew in from the stone corridor , making the new-comer cough , shiver , and cast wistful glances towards the warm corner by the stove .
My place was there , and the heat often oppressed me , so I was glad of an opportunity to move .
A word to Madame Vodoz effected the change ; and at dinner I was rewarded by a grateful smile from the poor fellow , as he nestled into his warm seat , after a pause of surprise and a flush of pleasure at the small kindness from a stranger .
We were too far apart to talk much , but , as he filled his glass , the Pole bowed to me , and said low in French -- ' I drink the good health to Mademoiselle . '
I returned the wish , but he shook his head with a sudden shadow on his face , as if the words meant more than mere compliment to him .
` That boy is sick and needs care .
I must see to him , ' said I to myself , as I met him in the afternoon , and observed the military look of his blue and white suit , as he touched his cap and smiled pleasantly .
I have a weakness for brave boys in blue , and having discovered that he had been in the late Polish Revolution , my heart warmed to him at once .
That evening he came to me in the salon , and expressed his thanks in the prettiest broken English I ever heard .
So simple , frank , and grateful was he that a few words of interest won his little story from him , and in half an hour we were friends .
With his fellow-students he had fought through the last outbreak , and suffered imprisonment and hardship rather than submit , had lost many friends , his fortune and his health , and at twenty , lonely , poor , and ill , was trying bravely to cure the malady which seemed fatal .
` If I recover myself of this affair in the chest , I teach the music to acquire my bread in this so hospitable country .
At Paris , my friends , all two , find a refuge , and I go to them in spring if I die not here .
Yes , it is solitary , and my memories are not gay , but I have my work , and the good God remains always to me , so I content myself with much hope , and I wait . '
Such genuine piety and courage increased my respect and regard immensely , and a few minutes later he added to both by one of the little acts that show character better than words .
He told me about the massacre , when five hundred Poles were shot down by Cossacks in the market-place , merely because they sung their national hymn .
` Play me that forbidden air , ' I said , wishing to judge of his skill , for I had heard him practising softly in the afternoon .
He rose willingly , then glanced about the room and gave a little shrug which made me ask what he wanted . '
I look to see if the Baron is here .
He is Russian , and to him my national air will not be pleasing . '
` Then play it .
He dare not forbid it here , and I should rather enjoy that little insult to your bitter enemy , ' said I , feeling very indignant with everything Russian just then .
` Ah , mademoiselle , it is true we are enemies , but we are also gentlemen , ' returned the boy , proving that he at least was one .
I thanked him for his lesson in politeness , and as the Baron was not there he played the beautiful hymn , singing it enthusiastically in spite of the danger to his weak lungs .
A true musician evidently , for , as he sung his pale face glowed , his eyes shone , and his lost vigor seemed restored to him .
From that evening we were fast friends ; for the memory of certain dear lads at home made my heart open to this lonely boy , who gave me in return the most grateful affection and service .
He begged me to call him ` Varjo , ' as his mother did .
He constituted himself my escort , errand-boy , French teacher , and private musician , making those weeks indefinitely pleasant by his winning ways , his charming little confidences , and faithful friendship .
We had much fun over our lessons , for I helped him about his English .
With a great interest in free America , and an intense longing to hear about our war , the barrier of an unknown tongue did not long stand between us .
Beginning with my bad French and his broken English , we got on capitally ; but he outdid me entirely , making astonishing progress , though he often slapped his forehead with the despairing exclamation , -- ' I am imbecile !
I never can will shall to have learn this beast of English ! '
But he did , and in a month had added a new language to the five he already possessed .
His music was the delight of the house ; and he often gave us little concerts with the help of Madame Teiblin , a German St. Cecilia , with a cropped head and a gentlemanly sack , cravat , and collar .
Both were enthusiasts , and the longer they played the more inspired they got .
The piano vibrated , the stools creaked , the candles danced in their sockets , and every one sat mute while the four white hands chased one another up and down the keys , and the two fine faces beamed with such ecstasy that we almost expected to see instrument and performers disappear in a musical whirlwind .
Lake Leman will never seem so lovely again as when Laddie and I roamed about its shores , floated on its bosom , or laid splendid plans for the future in the sunny garden of the old chateau .
I tried it again last year , but the charm was gone , for I missed my boy with his fun , his music , and the frank , fresh affection he gave his ` little mamma , ' as he insisted on calling the lofty spinster who loved him like half-a-dozen grandmothers rolled into one .
December roses blossomed in the gardens then , and Laddie never failed to have a posy ready for me at dinner .
Few evenings passed without ` confidences ' in my corner of the salon , and I still have a pile of merry little notes which I used to find tucked under my door .
He called them chapters of a great history we were to write together , and being a ' polisson ' he illustrated it with droll pictures , and a funny mixture of French and English romance .
It was very pleasant , but like all pleasant things in this world of change it soon came to an end .
When I left for Italy we jokingly agreed to meet in Paris the next May , but neither really felt that we should ever meet again , for Laddie hardly expected to outlive the winter , and I felt sure I should soon be forgotten .
As he kissed my hand there were tears in my boy's eyes , and a choke in the voice that tried to say cheerfully -- ' Bon voyage , dear and good little mamma .
I do not say adieu , but au revoir . '
Then the carriage rolled away , the wistful face vanished , and nothing remained to me but the memory of Laddie , and a little stain on my glove where a drop had fallen .
As I drew near Paris six months later , and found myself wishing that I might meet Varjo in the great , gay city , and wondering if there was any chance of my doing it , I never dreamed of seeing him so soon ; but , as I made my way among the crowd of passengers that poured through the station , feeling tired , bewildered , and homesick , I suddenly saw a blue and white cap wave wildly in the air , then Laddie's beaming face appeared , and Laddie's eager hands grasped mine so cordially that I began to laugh at once , and felt that Paris was almost as good as home .
` Ah , ha !
behold the little mamma , who did not think to see again her bad son !
Yes , I am greatly glad that I make the fine surprise for you as you come all weary to this place of noise .
Give to me the billets , for I am still mademoiselle's servant and go to find the coffers . '
He got my trunks , put me into a carriage , and as we rolled merrily away I asked how he chanced to meet me so unexpectedly .
Knowing where I intended to stay , he had called occasionally till I notified Madame D. of the day and hour of my arrival , and then he had come to ` make the fine surprise . '
He enjoyed the joke like a true boy , and I was glad to see how well he looked , and how gay he seemed .
` You are better ? '
I said . '
I truly hope so .
The winter was good to me and I cough less .
It is a small hope , but I do not enlarge my fear by a sad face .
I yet work and save a little purse , so that I may not be a heaviness to those who have the charity to finish me if I fall back and yet die . '
I would not hear of that , and told him he looked as well and happy as if he had found a fortune .
He laughed , and answered with his fine bow , ' I have .
Behold , you come to make the fête for me .
I find also here my friends Joseph and Napoleon .
Poor as mouses of the church , as you say , but brave boys , and we work together with much gaiety . '
When I asked if he had leisure to be my guide about Paris , for my time was short and I wanted to see everything ; he pranced , and told me he had promised himself a holiday , and had planned many excursions the most wonderful , charming , and gay .
Then , having settled me at Madame's , he went blithely away to what I afterwards discovered were very poor lodgings , across the river .
Next day began the pleasantest fortnight in all my year of travel .
Laddie appeared early , elegant to behold , in a new hat and buff gloves , and was immensely amused because the servant informed me that my big son had arrived .
I believe the first thing a woman does in Paris is to buy a new bonnet .
I did , or rather stood by and let ` my son ' do it in the best of French , only whispering when he proposed gorgeous chapeaus full of flowers and feathers , that I could not afford it .
` Ah !
we must make our economies , must we ?
See , then , this modest , pearl-colored one , with the crape rose .
Yes , we will have that , and be most elegant for the Sunday promenade . '
I fear I should have bought a pea-green hat with a yellow plume if he had urged it , so wheedlesome and droll were his ways and words .
His good taste saved me , however , and the modest one was sent home for the morrow , when we were to meet Joseph and Napoleon and go to the concert in the Tuileries garden .
Then we set off on our day of sight-seeing , and Laddie proved himself an excellent guide .
We had a charming trip about the enchanted city , a gay lunch at a café , and a first brief glimpse of the Louvre .
At dinner-time I found a posy at my place ; and afterward Laddie came and spent the evening in my little salon , playing to me , and having what he called ` babblings and pleasantries . '
I found that he was translating ` Vanity Fair ' into Polish , and intended to sell it at home .
He convulsed me with his struggles to put cockney English and slang into good Polish , for he had saved up a list of words for me to explain to him .
Hay-stack and bean-pot were among them , I remember ; and when he had mastered the meanings he fell upon the sofa exhausted .
Other days like this followed , and we led a happy life together : for my twelve years ' seniority made our adventures quite proper , and I fearlessly went anywhere on the arm of my big son .
Not to theatres or balls , however , for heated rooms were bad for Laddie , but pleasant trips out of the city in the bright spring weather , quiet strolls in the gardens , moonlight concerts in the Champs Elysées ; or , best of all , long talks with music in the little red salon , with the gas turned low , and the ever-changing scenes of the Rue de Rivoli under the balcony .
Never were pleasures more cheaply purchased or more thoroughly enjoyed , for our hearts were as light as our purses , and our ` little economies ' gave zest to our amusements .
Joseph and Napoleon sometimes joined us , and I felt in my element with the three invalid soldier boys , for Napoleon still limped with a wound received in the war , Joseph had never recovered from his two years ' imprisonment in an Austrian dungeon , and Laddie's loyalty might yet cost him his life .
Thanks to them , I discovered a joke played upon me by my ' polisson ' .
He told me to call him ` ma drogha , ' saying it meant ` my friend , ' in Polish .
I innocently did so , and he seemed to find great pleasure in it , for his eyes always laughed when I said it .
Using it one day before the other lads , I saw a queer twinkle in their eyes , and suspecting mischief , demanded the real meaning of the words .
Laddie tried to silence them , but the joke was too good to keep , and I found to my dismay that I had been calling him ` my darling ' in the tenderest manner .
How the three rascals shouted , and what a vain struggle it was to try and preserve my dignity when Laddie clasped his hands and begged pardon , explaining that jokes were necessary to his health , and he never meant me to know the full baseness of this ` pleasantrie ! '
I revenged myself by giving him some bad English for his translation , and telling him of it just as I left Paris .
It was not all fun with my boy , however ; he had his troubles , and in spite of his cheerfulness he knew what heartache was .
Walking in the quaint garden of the Luxembourg one day , he confided to me the little romance of his life .
A very touching little romance as he told it , with eloquent eyes and voice and frequent pauses for breath .
I can not give his words , but the simple facts were these : -- He had grown up with a pretty cousin , and at eighteen was desperately in love with her .
She returned his affection , but they could not be happy , for her father wished her to marry a richer man .
In Poland , to marry without the consent of parents is to incur lasting disgrace ; so Leonore obeyed , and the young pair parted .
This had been a heavy sorrow to Laddie , and he rushed into the war , hoping to end his trouble .
` Do you ever hear from your cousin ? '
I asked , as he walked beside me , looking sadly down the green aisles where kings and queens had loved and parted years ago . '
I only know that she suffers still , for she remembers .
Her husband submits to the Russians , and I despise him as I have no English to tell ; ' and he clenched his hands with the flash of the eye and sudden kindling of the whole face that made him handsome .
He showed me a faded little picture , and when I tried to comfort him , he laid his head down on the pedestal of one of the marble queens who guard the walk , as if he never cared to lift it up again .
But he was all right in a minute , and bravely put away his sorrow with the little picture .
He never spoke of it again , and I saw no more shadows on his face till we came to say good-bye .
` You have been so kind to me , I wish I had something beautiful to give you , Laddie , ' I said , feeling that it would be hard to get on without my boy .
` This time it is for always ; so , as a parting souvenir , give to me the sweet English good-bye . '
As he said this , with a despairing sort of look , as if he could not spare even so humble a friend as myself , my heart was quite rent within me , and , regardless of several prim English ladies , I drew down his tall head and kissed him tenderly , feeling that in this world there were no more meetings for us .
Then I ran away and buried myself in an empty railway carriage , hugging the little cologne bottle he had given me .
He promised to write , and for five years he has kept his word , sending me from Paris and Poland cheery , bright letters in English , at my desire , so that he might not forget .
Here is one as a specimen .
` MY DEAR AND GOOD FRIEND , -- What do you think of me that I do not write so long time ?
Excuse me , my good mamma , for I was so busy in these days I could not do this pleasant thing .
I write English without the fear that you laugh at it , because I know it is more agreeable to read the own language , and I think you are not excepted of this rule .
It is good of me , for the expressions of love and regard , made with faults , take the funny appearance ; they are ridicule , and instead to go to the heart , they make the laugh .
Never mind , I do it .
` You can not imagine yourself how stupide is Paris when you are gone .
I fly to my work , and make no more fêtes , -- it is too sad alone .
I tie myself to my table and my Vanity not of mine , for I am not vain , am I ?
.
I wish some chapters to finish themselfs vite , that I send them to Pologne and know the end .
I have a little question to ask you of Vanity as always .
I can not translate this , no one of dictionnaires makes me the words , and I think it is jargon de prison , this little period .
Behold : -- Mopy , is that your snum ?
Nubble your dad and gully the dog , & c. ` So funny things I can not explain myself , so I send to you , and you reply sooner than without it , for you have so kind interest in my work you do not stay to wait .
So this is a little hook for you to make you write some words to your son who likes it so much and is fond of you .
` My doctor tells me my lungs are soon to be re-established ; so you may imagine yourself how glad I am , and of more courage in my future .
You may one day see your Varjo in Amerique , if I study commerce as I wish .
So then the last time of seeing ourselves is not the last .
Is that to please you ?
I suppose the grand histoire is finished , n'est ce pas ?
You will then send it to me care of M. Gryhomski Austriche , and he will give to me in clandestine way at Varsovie , otherwise it will be confiscated at the frontier by the stupide Russians .
` Now we are dispersed in two sides of world far apart , for soon I go home to Pologne and am no more '' juif errant . ''
It is now time I work at my life in some useful way , and I do it .
` As I am your grand fils , it is proper that I make you my compliment of happy Christmas and New Year , is it not ?
I wish for you so many as they may fulfil long human life .
May this year bring you more and more good hearts to love you , the only real happiness in the hard life , and may I be as now , yours for always , ` VARJO . '
A year ago he sent me his photograph and a few lines .
I acknowledged the receipt of it , but since then not a word has come , and I begin to fear that my boy is dead .
Others have appeared to take his place , but they don't suit , and I keep his corner always ready for him if he lives .
If he is dead , I am glad to have known so sweet and brave a character , for it does one good to see even as short-lived and obscure a hero as my Polish boy , whose dead December rose embalms for me the memory of Varjo , the last and dearest of my boys .
It is hardly necessary to add , for the satisfaction of inquisitive little women , that Laddie was the original of Laurie , as far as a pale pen-and-ink sketch could embody a living , loving boy .
