`` This , '' said Sara , laying Aunt Josephina's letter down on the kitchen table with such energy that in anybody but Sara it must have been said she threw it down , `` this is positively the last straw !
I have endured all the rest .
I have given up my chance of a musical education , when Aunt Nan offered it , that I might stay home and help Willard pay the mortgage off -- if it doesn't pay us off first -- and I have , which was much harder , accepted the fact that we can't possibly afford to send Ray to the Valley Academy , even if I wore the same hat and coat for four winters .
I did not grumble when Uncle Joel came here to live because he wanted to be ` near his dear nephew's children . '
I felt it my Christian duty to look pleasant when we had to give Cousin Caroline a home to save her from the poorhouse .
But my endurance and philosophy , and worst of all , my furniture , has reached a limit .
I can not have Aunt Josephina come here to spend the winter , because I have no room to put her in . ''
`` Hello , Sally , what's the matter ? ''
asked Ray , coming in with a book .
It would have been hard to catch Ray without a book ; he generally took one even to bed with him .
Ray had a headful of brains , and Sara thought it was a burning shame that there seemed to be no chance for his going to college .
`` You look all rumpled up in your conscience , beloved sis , '' the boy went on , chaffingly .
`` My conscience is all right , '' said Sara severely .
`` It's worse than that .
If you please , here's a letter from Aunt Josephina !
She writes that she is very lonesome .
Her son has gone to South America , and won't be back until spring , and she wants to come and spend the winter with us . ''
`` Well , why not ? ''
asked Ray serenely .
Nothing ever bothered Ray .
`` The more the merrier . ''
`` Ray Sheldon !
Where are we to put her ?
We have no spare room , as you well know . ''
`` Can't she room with Cousin Caroline ? ''
`` Cousin Caroline's room is too small for two .
It's full to overflowing with her belongings now , and Aunt Josephina will bring two trunks at least .
Try again , bright boy . ''
`` What's the matter with the blue north room ? ''
`` There is nothing the matter with it -- oh , nothing at all !
We could put Aunt Josephina there , but where will she sleep ?
Where will she wash her face ?
Will it not seem slightly inhospitable to invite her to sit on a bare floor ?
Have you forgotten that there isn't a stick of furniture in the blue north room and , worse still , that we haven't a spare cent to buy any , not even the cheapest kind ? ''
`` I'll give it up , '' said Ray .
`` I might have a try at squaring the circle if you asked me , but the solution of the Aunt Josephina problem is beyond me . ''
`` The solution is simply that we must write to Aunt Josephina , politely but firmly , that we can't have her come , owing to lack of accommodation .
You must write the letter , Ray .
Make it as polite as you can , but above all make it firm . ''
`` Oh , but Sally , dear , '' protested Ray , who didn't relish having to write such a letter , `` isn't this rather hasty , rather inhospitable ?
Poor Aunt Josephina must really be rather lonely , and it's only natural she should want to visit her relations . ''
`` We 're not her relations , '' cried Sara .
`` We 're not a speck of relation really .
She's only the half-sister of Mother's half-brother .
That sounds nice and relationy , doesn't it ?
And she's fussy and interfering , and she will fight with Cousin Caroline , everybody fights with Cousin Caroline -- '' `` Except Sara , '' interrupted Ray , but Sara went on with a rush , `` And we won't have a minute's peace all winter .
Anyhow , where could we put her even if we wanted her to come ?
No , we can't have her ! ''
`` Mother was always very fond of Aunt Josephina , '' said Ray reflectively .
Sara had her lips open , all ready to answer whatever Ray might say , but she shut them suddenly and the boy went on .
`` Aunt Josephina thought a lot of Mother , too .
She used to say she knew there was always a welcome for her at Maple Hollow .
It does seem a pity , Sally dear , for your mother's daughter to send word to Aunt Josephina , per my mother's son , that there isn't room for her any longer at Maple Hollow . ''
`` I shall leave it to Willard , '' said Sara abruptly .
`` If he says to let her come , come she shall , even if Dorothy and I have to camp in the barn . ''
`` I 'm going to have a prowl around the garret , '' said Ray , apropos of nothing .
`` And I shall get the tea ready , '' answered Sara briskly .
`` Dorothy will be home from school very soon , and I hear Uncle Joel stirring .
Willard won't be back till dark , so there is no use waiting for him . ''
At twilight Sara decided to walk up the lane and meet Willard .
She always liked to meet him thus when he had been away for a whole day .
Sara thought there was nobody in the world as good and dear as Willard .
It was a dull grey November twilight ; the maples in the hollow were all leafless , and the hawthorn hedge along the lane was sere and frosted ; a little snow had fallen in the afternoon , and lay in broad patches on the brown fields .
The world looked very dull and dispirited , and Sara sighed .
She could not help thinking of the dark side of things just then .
`` Everything is wrong , '' said poor Sara dolefully .
`` Willard has to work like a slave , and yet with all his efforts he can barely pay the interest on the mortgage .
And Ray ought to go to college .
But I don't see how we can ever manage .
To be sure , he won't be ready until next fall , but we won't have the money then any more than now .
It would take every bit of a hundred and fifty dollars to fit him out with books and clothes , and pay for board and tuition at the academy .
If he could just have a year there he could teach and earn his own way through college .
But we might as well hope for the moon as one hundred and fifty dollars . ''
Sara sighed again .
She was only eighteen , but she felt very old .
Willard was nineteen , and Willard had never had a chance to be young .
His father had died when he was twelve , and he had run the farm since then , he and Sara together indeed , for Sara was a capital planner and manager and worker .
The little mother had died two years ago , and the household cares had all fallen on Sara's shoulders since .
Sometimes , as now , they pressed very heavily , but a talk with Willard always heartened her up .
Willard had his blue spells too , but Sara thought it a special Providence that their blue turns never came together .
When one got downhearted the other was always ready to do the cheering up .
Sara was glad to hear Willard whistling when he drove into the lane ; it was a sign he was in good spirits .
He pulled up , and Sara climbed into the wagon .
`` Things go all right today , Sally ? ''
he asked cheerfully .
`` There was a letter from Aunt Josephina , '' answered Sara , anxious to get the worst over , `` and she wants to come to Maple Hollow for the winter .
I thought at first we just couldn't have her , but I decided to leave it to you . ''
`` Well , we've got a pretty good houseful already , '' said Willard thoughtfully .
`` But I suppose if Aunt Josephina wants to come we 'd better have her .
I always liked Aunt Josephina , and so did Mother , you know . ''
`` I don't know where we can put her .
We haven't any spare room , Will . ''
`` Ray and I can sleep in the kitchen loft .
You and Dolly take our room , and let Aunt Josephina take yours . ''
`` The kitchen loft isn't really fit to sleep in , '' said Sara pessimistically .
`` It's awfully cold , and there 're mice and rats -- ugh !
You and Ray will get nibbled in spots .
But it's the only thing to do if we must have Aunt Josephina .
I'll get Ray to write to her tomorrow .
I couldn't put enough cordiality into the letter if I wrote it myself . ''
Ray came in while Willard was at supper .
There were cobwebs all over him from his head to his heels .
`` I've solved the Aunt J. problem , '' he announced cheerfully .
`` We will furnish the blue north room . ''
`` With what ? ''
asked Sara disbelievingly .
`` I've been poking about in the garret and in the carriage house loft , '' said Ray , `` and I've found furniture galore .
It's very old and cobwebby -- witness my appearance -- and very much in want of scrubbing and a few nails .
But it will do . ''
`` I 'd forgotten about those old things , '' said Sara slowly .
`` They've never been used since I can remember , and long before .
They were discarded before Mother came here .
But I thought they were all broken and quite useless . ''
`` Not at all .
I believe we can furbish them up sufficiently to make the room habitable .
It will be rather old-fashioned , but then it's Hobson's choice .
There are the pieces of an old bed out in the loft , and they can be put together .
There's an old corner cupboard out there too , with leaded glass doors , two old solid wooden armchairs , and a funny old chest of drawers with a writing desk in place of the top drawer , all full of yellow old letters and trash .
I found it under a pile of old carpet .
Then there's a washstand , and also a towel rack up in the garret , and the funniest old table with three claw legs , and a tippy top .
One leg is broken off , but I hunted around and found it , and I guess we can fix it on .
And there are two more old chairs and a queer little oval table with a cracked swing mirror on it . ''
`` I have it , '' exclaimed Sara , with a burst of inspiration , `` let us fix up a real old-fashioned room for Aunt Josephina .
It won't do to put anything modern with those old things .
One would kill the other .
I'll put Mother's rag carpet down in it , and the four braided mats Grandma Sheldon gave me , and the old brass candlestick and the Irish chain coverlet .
Oh , I believe it will be lots of fun . ''
It was .
For a week the Sheldons hammered and glued and washed and consulted .
The north room was already papered with a blue paper of an old-fashioned stripe-and-diamond pattern .
The rag carpet was put down , and the braided rugs laid on it .
The old bedstead was set up in one corner and , having been well cleaned and polished with beeswax and turpentine , was really a handsome piece of furniture .
On the washstand Sara placed a quaint old basin and ewer which had been Grandma Sheldon's .
Ray had fixed up the table as good as new ; Sara had polished the brass claws , and on the table she put the brass tray , two candlesticks , and snuffers which had been long stowed away in the kitchen loft .
The dressing table and swing mirror , with its scroll frame of tarnished gilt , was in the window corner , and opposite it was the old chest of drawers .
The cupboard was set up in a corner , and beside it stood the spinning-wheel from the kitchen loft .
The big grandfather clock , which had always stood in the hall below was carried up , and two platters of blue willow-ware were set up over the mantel .
Above them was hung the faded sampler that Grandma Sheldon had worked ninety years ago when she was a little girl .
`` Do you know , '' said Sara , when they stood in the middle of the room and surveyed the result , `` I expected to have a good laugh over this , but it doesn't look funny after all .
The things all seem to suit each other , some way , and they look good , don't they ?
I mean they look real , clear through .
I believe that table and those drawers are solid mahogany .
And look at the carving on those bedposts .
Cleaning them has made such a difference .
I do hope Aunt Josephina won't mind their being so old . ''
Aunt Josephina didn't .
She was very philosophical about it when Sara explained that Cousin Caroline had the spare room , and the blue north room was all they had left .
`` Oh , it will be all right , '' she said , plainly determined to make the best of things .
`` Those old things are thought a lot of now , anyhow .
I can't say I fancy them much myself -- I like something a little brighter .
But the rich folks have gone cracked over them .
I know a woman in Boston that's got her whole house furnished with old truck , and as soon as she hears of any old furniture anywhere she's not contented till she's got it .
She says it's her hobby , and she spends a heap on it .
She 'd be in raptures if she saw this old room of yours , Sary . ''
`` Do you mean , '' said Sara slowly , `` that there are people who would buy old things like these ? ''
`` Yes , and pay more for them than would buy a real nice set with a marble-topped burey .
You may well say there's lots of fools in the world , Sary . ''
Sara was not saying or thinking any such thing .
It was a new idea to her that any value was attached to old furniture , for Sara lived very much out of the world of fads and collectors .
But she did not forget what Aunt Josephina had said .
The winter passed away .
Aunt Josephina plainly enjoyed her visit , whatever the Sheldons felt about it .
In March her son returned , and Aunt Josephina went home to him .
Before she left , Sara asked her for the address of the woman whose hobby was old furniture , and the very afternoon after Aunt Josephina had gone Sara wrote and mailed a letter .
For a week she looked so mysterious that Willard and Ray could not guess what she was plotting .
At the end of that time Mrs. Stanton came .
Mrs. Stanton always declared afterwards that the mere sight of that blue north room gave her raptures .
Such a find !
Such a discovery !
A bedstead with carved posts , a claw-footed table , real old willow-ware plates with the birds ' bills meeting !
Here was luck , if you like !
When Willard and Ray came home to tea Sara was sitting on the stairs counting her wealth .
`` Sally , where did you discover all that long-lost treasure ? ''
demanded Ray .
`` Mrs. Stanton of Boston was here today , '' said Sara , enjoying the moment of revelation hugely .
`` She makes a hobby of collecting old furniture .
I sold her every blessed thing in the blue north room except Mother's carpet and Grandma's mats and sampler .
She wanted those too , but I couldn't part with them .
She bought everything else and , '' Sara lifted her hands , full of bills , dramatically , `` here are two hundred and fifty dollars to take you to the Valley Academy next fall , Ray . ''
`` It wouldn't be fair to take it for that , '' said Ray , flushing .
`` You and Will -- '' `` Will and I say you must take it , '' said Sara .
`` Don't we , Will ?
There is nothing we want so much as to give you a college start .
It is an enormous burden off my mind to think it is so nicely provided for .
Besides , most of those old things were yours by the right of rediscovery , and you voted first of all to have Aunt Josephina come . ''
`` You must take it , of course , Ray , '' said Willard .
`` Nothing else would give Sara and me so much pleasure .
A blessing on Aunt Josephina . ''
`` Amen , '' said Sara and Ray .
