Hurrying to catch a certain car at a certain corner late one stormy night , I was suddenly arrested by the sight of a queer-looking bundle lying in a door-way .
` Bless my heart , it's a child !
O John !
I 'm afraid he's frozen ! '
I exclaimed to my brother , as we both bent over the bundle .
Such a little fellow as he was , in the big , ragged coat ; such a tired , baby face , under the fuzzy cap ; such a purple , little hand , still holding fast a few papers ; such a pathetic sight altogether was the boy , lying on the stone step , with the snow drifting over him , that it was impossible to go by .
` He is asleep ; but he'll freeze , if left so long .
Here !
wake up , my boy , and go home , as fast as you can , ' cried John , with a gentle shake , and a very gentle voice ; for the memory of a dear little lad , safely tucked up at home , made him fatherly kind to the small vagabond .
The moment he was touched , the boy tumbled up , and , before he was half awake , began his usual cry , with an eye to business .
` Paper , sir ?
`` Herald ! ''
`` Transkip ! ''
Last ' -- a great gape swallowed up the ` last edition , ' and he stood blinking at us like a very chilly young owl .
` I'll buy 'em all if you'll go home , my little chap ; it's high time you were abed , ' said John , whisking the damp papers into one pocket , and his purse out of another , as he spoke .
` All of 'em ?
-- why there's six ! '
croaked the boy , for he was as hoarse as a raven .
` Never mind , I can kindle the fire with 'em .
Put that in your pocket ; and trot home , my man , as fast as possible . '
` Where do you live ? '
I asked , picking up the fifty cents that fell from the little fingers , too benumbed to hold it .
` Mills Court , out of Hanover .
Cold , ain't it ? '
said the boy , blowing on his purple hands , and hopping feebly from one leg to the other , to take the stiffness out .
` He can't go all that way in this storm -- such a mite , and so used up with cold and sleep , John . '
` Of course he can't ; we'll put him in a car , ' began John ; when the boy wheezed out , -- ` No ; I've got ter wait for Sam .
He'll be along as soon's the theatre's done .
He said he would ; and so I 'm waitin ' . '
` Who is Sam ? '
I asked .
` He's the feller I lives with .
I ain't got any folks , and he takes care o ' me . '
` Nice care , indeed ; leaving a baby like you to wait for him here such a night as this , ' I said crossly .
` Oh , he's good to me Sam is , though he does knock me round sometimes , when I ain't spry .
The big feller shoves me back , you see ; and I gets cold , and can't sing out loud ; so I don't sell my papers , and has to work 'em off late . '
` Hear the child talk !
One would think he was sixteen , instead of six , ' I said , half laughing .
` I 'm most ten .
Hi !
ain't that a oner ? '
cried the boy , as a gust of sleet slapped him in the face , when he peeped to see if Sam was coming .
` Hullo !
the lights is out !
Why , the play's done , and the folks gone , and Sam's forgot me . '
It was very evident that Sam had forgotten his little protégé ; and a strong desire to shake Sam possessed me .
` No use waitin ' any longer ; and now my papers is sold , I ain't afraid to go home , ' said the boy , stepping down like a little old man with the rheumatism , and preparing to trudge away through the storm .
` Stop a bit , my little Casabianca ; a car will be along in fifteen minutes ; and while waiting you can warm yourself over there , ' said John , with the purple hand in his .
` My name's Jack Hill , not Cassy Banks , please , sir , ' said the little party , with dignity .
` Have you had your supper , Mr. Hill ? '
asked John , laughing . '
I had some peanuts , and two sucks of Joe's orange ; but it warn't very fillin ' , ' he said , gravely . '
I should think not .
Here !
one stew ; and be quick , please , ' cried John , as we sat down in a warm corner of the confectioner's opposite .
While little Jack shovelled in the hot oysters , with his eyes shutting up now and then in spite of himself , we looked at him and thought again of little Rosy-face at home safe in his warm nest , with mother-love watching over him .
Nodding towards the ragged , grimy , forlorn , little creature , dropping asleep over his supper like a tired baby , I said , -- ` Can you imagine our Freddy out alone at this hour , trying to ` work off ' his papers , because afraid to go home till he has ? '
` I 'd rather not try , ' answered brother John , winking hard , as he stroked the little head beside him , which , by the bye , looked very like a ragged , yellow door-mat .
I think brother John winked hard , but I can't be sure , for I know I did ; and for a minute there seemed to be a dozen little newsboys dancing before my eyes .
` There goes our car ; and it's the last , ' said John , looking at me .
` Let it go , but don't leave the boy ; ' and I frowned at John for hinting at such a thing .
` Here is his car .
Now , my lad , bolt your last oyster , and come on . '
` Good-night , ma'am !
thankee , sir ! '
croaked the grateful little voice , as the child was caught up in John's strong hands and set down on the car-step .
With a word to the conductor , and a small business transaction , we left Jack coiled up in a corner to finish his nap as tranquilly as if it wasn't midnight , and a ` knocking-round ' might not await him at his journey's end .
We didn't mind the storm much as we plodded home ; and when I told the story to Rosy-face , next day , his interest quite reconciled me to the sniffs and sneezes of a bad cold .
` If I saw that poor little boy , Aunt Jo , I 'd love him lots ! '
said Freddy , with a world of pity in his beautiful child's eyes .
And , believing that others also would be kind to little Jack , and such as he , I tell the story .
When busy fathers hurry home at night , I hope they'll buy their papers of the small boys , who get ` shoved back ; ' the feeble ones , who grow hoarse , and can't ` sing out ; ' the shabby ones , who evidently have only forgetful Sams to care for them ; and the hungry-looking ones , who don't get what is ` fillin ' . '
For love of the little sons and daughters safe at home , say a kind word , buy a paper , even if you don't want it ; and never pass by , leaving them to sleep forgotten in the streets at midnight , with no pillow but a stone , no coverlet but the pitiless snow , and not even a tender-hearted robin to drop leaves over them .
