Miss Hannah was cutting asters in her garden .
It was a very small garden , for nothing would grow beyond the shelter of the little , grey , low-eaved house which alone kept the northeast winds from blighting everything with salt spray ; but small as it was , it was a miracle of blossoms and a marvel of neatness .
The trim brown paths were swept clean of every leaf or fallen petal , each of the little square beds had its border of big white quahog clamshells , and not even a sweet-pea vine would have dared to straggle from its appointed course under Miss Hannah's eye .
Miss Hannah had always lived in the little grey house down by the shore , so far away from all the other houses in Prospect and so shut away from them by a circle of hills that it had a seeming isolation .
Not another house could Miss Hannah see from her own doorstone ; she often declared she could not have borne it if it had not been for the lighthouse beacon at night flaming over the northwest hill behind the house like a great unwinking , friendly star that never failed even on the darkest night .
Behind the house a little tongue of the St. Lawrence gulf ran up between the headlands until the wavelets of its tip almost lapped against Miss Hannah's kitchen doorstep .
Beyond , to the north , was the great crescent of the gulf , whose murmur had been Miss Hannah's lullaby all her life .
When people wondered to her how she could endure living in such a lonely place , she retorted that the loneliness was what she loved it for , and that the lighthouse star and the far-away call of the gulf had always been company enough for her and always would be ... until Ralph came back .
When Ralph came home , of course , he might like a livelier place and they might move to town or up-country as he wished .
`` Of course , '' said Miss Hannah with a proud smile , `` a rich man mightn't fancy living away down here in a little grey house by the shore .
He'll be for building me a mansion , I expect , and I 'd like it fine .
But until he comes I must be contented with things as they are . ''
People always smiled to each other when Miss Hannah talked like this .
But they took care not to let her see the smile .
Miss Hannah snipped her white and purple asters off ungrudgingly and sang , as she snipped , an old-fashioned song she had learned long ago in her youth .
The day was one of October's rarest , and Miss Hannah loved fine days .
The air was clear as golden-hued crystal , and all the slopes around her were mellow and hazy in the autumn sunshine .
She knew that beyond those sunny slopes were woods glorying in crimson and gold , and she would have the delight of a walk through them later on when she went to carry the asters to sick Millie Starr at the Bridge .
Flowers were all Miss Hannah had to give , for she was very poor , but she gave them with a great wealth of friendliness and goodwill .
Presently a wagon drove down her lane and pulled up outside of her white garden paling .
Jacob Delancey was in it , with a pretty young niece of his who was a visitor from the city , and Miss Hannah , her sheaf of asters in her arms , went over to the paling with a sparkle of interest in her faded blue eyes .
She had heard a great deal of the beauty of this strange girl .
Prospect people had been talking of nothing else for a week , and Miss Hannah was filled with a harmless curiosity concerning her .
She always liked to look at pretty people , she said ; they did her as much good as her flowers .
`` Good afternoon , Miss Hannah , '' said Jacob Delancey .
`` Busy with your flowers , as usual , I see . ''
`` Oh , yes , '' said Miss Hannah , managing to stare with unobtrusive delight at the girl while she talked .
`` The frost will soon be coming now , you know ; so I want to live among them as much as I can while they 're here . ''
`` That's right , '' assented Jacob , who made a profession of cordial agreement with everybody and would have said the same words in the same tone had Miss Hannah announced a predilection for living in the cellar .
`` Well , Miss Hannah , it's flowers I 'm after myself just now .
We 're having a bit of a party at our house tonight , for the young folks , and my wife told me to call and ask you if you could let us have a few for decoration . ''
`` Of course , '' said Miss Hannah , `` you can have these .
I meant them for Millie , but I can cut the west bed for her . ''
She opened the gate and carried the asters over to the buggy .
Miss Delancey took them with a smile that made Miss Hannah remember the date forever .
`` Lovely day , '' commented Jacob genially .
`` Yes , '' said Miss Hannah dreamily .
`` It reminds me of the day Ralph went away twenty years ago .
It doesn't seem so long .
Don't you think he'll be coming back soon , Jacob ? ''
`` Oh , sure , '' said Jacob , who thought the very opposite .
`` I have a feeling that he's coming very soon , '' said Miss Hannah brightly .
`` It will be a great day for me , won't it , Jacob ?
I've been poor all my life , but when Ralph comes back everything will be so different .
He will be a rich man and he will give me everything I've always wanted .
He said he would .
A fine house and a carriage and a silk dress .
Oh , and we will travel and see the world .
You don't know how I look forward to it all .
I've got it all planned out , all I 'm going to do and have .
And I believe he will be here very soon .
A man ought to be able to make a fortune in twenty years , don't you think , Jacob ? ''
`` Oh , sure , '' said Jacob .
But he said it a little uncomfortably .
He did not like the job of throwing cold water , but it seemed to him that he ought not to encourage Miss Hannah's hopes .
`` Of course , you shouldn't think too much about it , Miss Hannah .
He mightn't ever come back , or he might be poor . ''
`` How can you say such things , Jacob ? ''
interrupted Miss Hannah indignantly , with a little crimson spot flaming out in each of her pale cheeks .
`` You know quite well he will come back .
I 'm as sure of it as that I 'm standing here .
And he will be rich , too .
People are always trying to hint just as you've done to me , but I don't mind them .
I know . ''
She turned and went back into her garden with her head held high .
But her sudden anger floated away in a whiff of sweet-pea perfume that struck her in the face ; she waved her hand in farewell to her callers and watched the buggy down the lane with a smile .
`` Of course , Jacob doesn't know , and I shouldn't have snapped him up so quick .
It'll be my turn to crow when Ralph does come .
My , but isn't that girl pretty .
I feel as if I 'd been looking at some lovely picture .
It just makes a good day of this .
Something pleasant happens to me most every day and that girl is today's pleasant thing .
I just feel real happy and thankful that there are such beautiful creatures in the world and that we can look at them . ''
`` Well , of all the queer delusions ! ''
Jacob Delancey was ejaculating as he and his niece drove down the lane .
`` What is it all about ? ''
asked Miss Delancey curiously .
`` Well , it's this way , Dorothy .
Long ago Miss Hannah had a brother who ran away from home .
It was before their father and mother died .
Ralph Walworth was as wild a young scamp as ever was in Prospect and a spendthrift in the bargain .
Nobody but Hannah had any use for him , and she just worshipped him .
I must admit he was real fond of her too , but he and his father couldn't get on at all .
So finally he ups and runs away ; it was generally supposed he went to the mining country .
He left a note for Hannah bidding her goodbye and telling her that he was going to make his fortune and would come back to her a rich man .
There's never been a word heard tell of him since , and in my opinion it's doubtful if he's still alive .
But Miss Hannah , as you saw , is sure and certain he'll come back yet with gold dropping out of his pockets .
She's as sane as anyone everyway else , but there is no doubt she's a little cracked on that p ` int .
If he never turns up she'll go on hoping quite happy to her death .
But if he should turn up and be poor , as is ten times likelier than anything else , I believe it 'd most kill Miss Hannah .
She's terrible proud for all she's so sweet , and you saw yourself how mad she got when I kind of hinted he mightn't be rich .
If he came back poor , after all her boasting about him , I don't fancy he 'd get much of a welcome from her .
And she 'd never hold up her head again , that's certain .
So it's to be hoped , say I , that Ralph Walworth never will turn up , unless he comes in a carriage and four , which is about as likely , in my opinion , as that he'll come in a pumpkin drawn by mice . ''
When October had passed and the grey November days came , the glory of Miss Hannah's garden was over .
She was very lonely without her flowers .
She missed them more this year than ever .
On fine days she paced up and down the walks and looked sadly at the drooping , unsightly stalks and vines .
She was there one afternoon when the northeast wind was up and doing , whipping the gulf waters into whitecaps and whistling up the inlet and around the grey eaves .
Miss Hannah was mournfully patting a frosted chrysanthemum under its golden chin when she saw a man limping slowly down the lane .
`` Now , who can that be ? ''
she murmured .
`` It isn't any Prospect man , for there's nobody lame around here . ''
She went to the garden gate to meet him .
He came haltingly up the slope and paused before her , gazing at her wistfully .
He looked old and bent and broken , and his clothes were poor and worn .
Who was he ?
Miss Hannah felt that she ought to know him , and her memory went groping back amongst all her recollections .
Yet she could think of nobody but her father , who had died fifteen years before .
`` Don't ye know me , Hannah ? ''
said the man wistfully .
`` Have I changed so much as all that ? ''
`` Ralph ! ''
It was between a cry and a laugh .
Miss Hannah flew through the gate and caught him in her arms .
`` Ralph , my own dear brother !
Oh , I always knew you 'd come back .
If you knew how I've looked forward to this day ! ''
She was both laughing and crying now .
Her face shone with a soft gladness .
Ralph Walworth shook his head sadly .
`` It's a poor wreck of a man I am come back to you , Hannah , '' he said .
`` I've never accomplished anything and my health's broken and I 'm a cripple as ye see .
For a time I thought I 'd never show my face back here , such a failure as I be , but the longing to see you got too strong .
It's naught but a wreck I am , Hannah . ''
`` You 're my own dear brother , '' cried Miss Hannah .
`` Do you think I care how poor you are ?
And if your health is poor I 'm the one to nurse you up , who else than your only sister , I 'd like to know !
Come right in .
You 're shivering in this wind .
I'll mix you a good hot currant drink .
I knew them black currants didn't bear so plentiful for nothing last summer .
Oh , this is a good day and no mistake ! ''
In twenty-four hours ' time everybody in Prospect knew that Ralph Walworth had come home , crippled and poor .
Jacob Delancey shook his head as he drove away from the station with Ralph's shabby little trunk standing on end in his buggy .
The station master had asked him to take it down to Miss Hannah's , and Jacob did not fancy the errand .
He was afraid Miss Hannah would be in a bad way and he did not know what to say to her .
She was in her garden , covering her pansies with seaweed , when he drove up , and she came to the garden gate to meet him , all smiles .
`` So you've brought Ralph's trunk , Mr. Delancey .
Now , that was real good of you .
He was going over to the station to see about it himself , but he had such a cold I persuaded him to wait till tomorrow .
He's lying down asleep now .
He's just real tired .
He brought this seaweed up from the shore for me this morning and it played him out .
He ain't strong .
But didn't I tell you he was coming back soon ?
You only laughed at me , but I knew . ''
`` He isn't very rich , though , '' said Jacob jokingly .
He was relieved to find that Miss Hannah did not seem to be worrying over this .
`` That doesn't matter , '' cried Miss Hannah .
`` Why , he's my brother !
Isn't that enough ?
I 'm rich if he isn't , rich in love and happiness .
And I 'm better pleased in a way than if he had come back rich .
He might have wanted to take me away or build a fine house , and I 'm too old to be making changes .
And then he wouldn't have needed me .
I 'd have been of no use to him .
As it is , it's just me he needs to look after him and coddle him .
Oh , it's fine to have somebody to do things for , somebody that belongs to you .
I was just dreading the loneliness of the winter , and now it's going to be such a happy winter .
I declare last night Ralph and I sat up till morning talking over everything .
He's had a hard life of it .
Bad luck and illness right along .
And last winter in the lumber woods he got his leg broke .
But now he's come home and we 're never going to be parted again as long as we live .
I could sing for joy , Jacob . ''
`` Oh , sure , '' assented Jacob cordially .
He felt a little dazed .
Miss Hannah's nimble change of base was hard for him to follow , and he had an injured sense of having wasted a great deal of commiseration on her when she didn't need it at all .
`` Only I kind of thought , we all thought , you had such plans . ''
`` Well , they served their turn , '' interrupted Miss Hannah briskly .
`` They amused me and kept me interested till something real would come in their place .
If I 'd had to carry them out I dare say they 'd have bothered me a lot .
Things are more comfortable as they are .
I 'm happy as a bird , Jacob . ''
`` Oh , sure , '' said Jacob .
He pondered the business deeply all the way back home , but could make nothing of it .
`` But I ain't obliged to , '' he concluded sensibly .
`` Miss Hannah's satisfied and happy and it's nobody else's concern .
However , I call it a curious thing . ''
