I WASn't able to go to prayer meeting that evening because I had neuralgia in my face ; but Thomas went , and the minute he came home I knew by the twinkle in his eye that he had some news .
`` Who do you s ` pose Stephen Clark went home with from meeting to-night ? ''
he said , chuckling .
`` Jane Miranda Blair , '' I said promptly .
Stephen Clark's wife had been dead for two years and he hadn't taken much notice of anybody , so far as was known .
But Carmody had Jane Miranda all ready for him , and really I don't know why she didn't suit him , except for the reason that a man never does what he is expected to do when it comes to marrying .
Thomas chuckled again .
`` Wrong .
He stepped up to Prissy Strong and walked off with her .
Cold soup warmed over . ''
`` Prissy Strong ! ''
I just held up my hands .
Then I laughed .
`` He needn't try for Prissy , '' I said .
`` Emmeline nipped that in the bud twenty years ago , and she'll do it again . ''
`` Em ` line is an old crank , '' growled Thomas .
He detested Emmeline Strong , and always did .
`` She's that , all right , '' I agreed , `` and that is just the reason she can turn poor Prissy any way she likes .
You mark my words , she'll put her foot right down on this as soon as she finds it out . ''
Thomas said that I was probably right .
I lay awake for a long time after I went to bed that night , thinking of Prissy and Stephen .
As a general rule , I don't concern my head about other people's affairs , but Prissy was such a helpless creature I couldn't get her off my mind .
Twenty years ago Stephen Clark had tried to go with Prissy Strong .
That was pretty soon after Prissy's father had died .
She and Emmeline were living alone together .
Emmeline was thirty , ten years older than Prissy , and if ever there were two sisters totally different from each other in every way , those two were Emmeline and Prissy Strong .
Emmeline took after her father ; she was big and dark and homely , and she was the most domineering creature that ever stepped on shoe leather .
She simply ruled poor Prissy with a rod of iron .
Prissy herself was a pretty girl -- at least most people thought so .
I can't honestly say I ever admired her style much myself .
I like something with more vim and snap to it .
Prissy was slim and pink , with soft , appealing blue eyes , and pale gold hair all clinging in baby rings around her face .
She was just as meek and timid as she looked and there wasn't a bit of harm in her .
I always liked Prissy , even if I didn't admire her looks as much as some people did .
Anyway , it was plain her style suited Stephen Clark .
He began to drive her , and there wasn't a speck of doubt that Prissy liked him .
Then Emmeline just put a stopper on the affair .
It was pure cantankerousness in her .
Stephen was a good match and nothing could be said against him .
But Emmeline was just determined that Prissy shouldn't marry .
She couldn't get married herself , and she was sore enough about it .
Of course , if Prissy had had a spark of spirit she wouldn't have given in .
But she hadn't a mite ; I believe she would have cut off her nose if Emmeline had ordered her to do it .
She was just her mother over again .
If ever a girl belied her name , Prissy Strong did .
There wasn't anything strong about her .
One night , when prayer meeting came out , Stephen stepped up to Prissy as usual and asked if he might see her home .
Thomas and I were just behind -- we weren't married ourselves then -- and we heard it all .
Prissy gave one scared , appealing look at Emmeline and then said , `` No , thank you , not to-night . ''
Stephen just turned on his heel and went .
He was a high-spirited fellow and I knew he would never overlook a public slight like that .
If he had had as much sense as he ought to have had he would have known that Emmeline was at the bottom of it ; but he didn't , and he began going to see Althea Gillis , and they were married the next year .
Althea was a rather nice girl , though giddy , and I think she and Stephen were happy enough together .
In real life things are often like that .
Nobody ever tried to go with Prissy again .
I suppose they were afraid of Emmeline .
Prissy's beauty soon faded .
She was always kind of sweet looking , but her bloom went , and she got shyer and limper every year of her life .
She wouldn't have dared put on her second best dress without asking Emmeline's permission .
She was real fond of cats and Emmeline wouldn't let her keep one .
Emmeline even cut the serial out of the religious weekly she took before she would give it to Prissy , because she didn't believe in reading novels .
It used to make me furious to see it all .
They were my next door neighbours after I married Thomas , and I was often in and out .
Sometimes I 'd feel real vexed at Prissy for giving in the way she did ; but , after all , she couldn't help it -- she was born that way .
And now Stephen was going to try his luck again .
It certainly did seem funny .
Stephen walked home with Prissy from prayer meeting four nights before Emmeline found it out .
Emmeline hadn't been going to prayer meeting all that summer because she was mad at Mr. Leonard .
She had expressed her disapproval to him because he had buried old Naomi Clark at the harbour `` just as if she was a Christian , '' and Mr. Leonard had said something to her she couldn't get over for a while .
I don't know what it was , but I know that when Mr. Leonard WAS roused to rebuke anyone the person so rebuked remembered it for a spell .
All at once I knew she must have discovered about Stephen and Prissy , for Prissy stopped going to prayer meeting .
I felt real worried about it , someway , and although Thomas said for goodness ' sake not to go poking my fingers into other people's pies , I felt as if I ought to do something .
Stephen Clark was a good man and Prissy would have a beautiful home ; and those two little boys of Althea's needed a mother if ever boys did .
Besides , I knew quite well that Prissy , in her secret soul , was hankering to be married .
So was Emmeline , too -- but nobody wanted to help HER to a husband .
The upshot of my meditations was that I asked Stephen down to dinner with us from church one day .
I had heard a rumour that he was going to see Lizzie Pye over at Avonlea , and I knew it was time to be stirring , if anything were to be done .
If it had been Jane Miranda I don't know that I 'd have bothered ; but Lizzie Pye wouldn't have done for a stepmother for Althea's boys at all .
She was too bad-tempered , and as mean as second skimmings besides .
Stephen came .
He seemed dull and moody , and not much inclined to talk .
After dinner I gave Thomas a hint .
I said , `` You go to bed and have your nap .
I want to talk to Stephen . ''
Thomas shrugged his shoulders and went .
He probably thought I was brewing up lots of trouble for myself , but he didn't say anything .
As soon as he was out of the way I casually remarked to Stephen that I understood that he was going to take one of my neighbours away and that I couldn't be sorry , though she was an excellent neighbour and I would miss her a great deal .
`` You won't have to miss her much , I reckon , '' said Stephen grimly .
`` I've been told I 'm not wanted there . ''
I was surprised to hear Stephen come out so plump and plain about it , for I hadn't expected to get at the root of the matter so easily .
Stephen wasn't the confidential kind .
But it really seemed to be a relief to him to talk about it ; I never saw a man feeling so sore about anything .
He told me the whole story .
Prissy had written him a letter -- he fished it out of his pocket and gave it to me to read .
It was in Prissy's prim , pretty little writing , sure enough , and it just said that his attentions were `` unwelcome , '' and would he be `` kind enough to refrain from offering them . ''
Not much wonder the poor man went to see Lizzie Pye !
`` Stephen , I 'm surprised at you for thinking that Prissy Strong wrote that letter , '' I said .
`` It's in her handwriting , '' he said stubbornly .
`` Of course it is .
` The hand is the hand of Esau , but the voice is the voice of Jacob , ' '' I said , though I wasn't sure whether the quotation was exactly appropriate .
`` Emmeline composed that letter and made Prissy copy it out .
I know that as well as if I 'd seen her do it , and you ought to have known it , too . ''
`` If I thought that I 'd show Emmeline I could get Prissy in spite of her , '' said Stephen savagely .
`` But if Prissy doesn't want me I 'm not going to force my attentions on her . ''
Well , we talked it over a bit , and in the end I agreed to sound Prissy , and find out what she really thought about it .
I didn't think it would be hard to do ; and it wasn't .
I went over the very next day because I saw Emmeline driving off to the store .
I found Prissy alone , sewing carpet rags .
Emmeline kept her constantly at that -- because Prissy hated it I suppose .
Prissy was crying when I went in , and in a few minutes I had the whole story .
Prissy wanted to get married -- and she wanted to get married to Stephen -- and Emmeline wouldn't let her .
`` Prissy Strong , '' I said in exasperation , `` you haven't the spirit of a mouse !
Why on earth did you write him such a letter ? ''
`` Why , Emmeline made me , '' said Prissy , as if there couldn't be any appeal from that ; and I knew there couldn't -- for Prissy .
I also knew that if Stephen wanted to see Prissy again Emmeline must know nothing of it , and I told him so when he came down the next evening -- to borrow a hoe , he said .
It was a long way to come for a hoe .
`` Then what am I to do ? ''
he said .
`` It wouldn't be any use to write , for it would likely fall into Emmeline's hands .
She won't let Prissy go anywhere alone after this , and how am I to know when the old cat is away ? ''
`` Please don't insult cats , '' I said .
`` I'll tell you what we'll do .
You can see the ventilator on our barn from your place , can't you ?
You 'd be able to make out a flag or something tied to it , wouldn't you , through that spy-glass of yours ? ''
Stephen thought he could .
`` Well , you take a squint at it every now and then , '' I said .
`` Just as soon as Emmeline leaves Prissy alone I'll hoist the signal . ''
The chance didn't come for a whole fortnight .
Then , one evening , I saw Emmeline striding over the field below our house .
As soon as she was out of sight I ran through the birch grove to Prissy .
`` Yes , Em ` line's gone to sit up with Jane Lawson to-night , '' said Prissy , all fluttered and trembling .
`` Then you put on your muslin dress and fix your hair , '' I said .
`` I 'm going home to get Thomas to tie something to that ventilator . ''
But do you think Thomas would do it ?
Not he .
He said he owed something to his position as elder in the church .
In the end I had to do it myself , though I don't like climbing ladders .
I tied Thomas ' long red woollen scarf to the ventilator , and prayed that Stephen would see it .
He did , for in less than an hour he drove down our lane and put his horse in our barn .
He was all spruced up , and as nervous and excited as a schoolboy .
He went right over to Prissy , and I began to tuft my new comfort with a clear conscience .
I shall never know why it suddenly came into my head to go up to the garret and make sure that the moths hadn't got into my box of blankets ; but I always believed that it was a special interposition of Providence .
I went up and happened to look out of the east window ; and there I saw Emmeline Strong coming home across our pond field .
I just flew down those garret stairs and out through the birches .
I burst into the Strong kitchen , where Stephen and Prissy were sitting as cozy as you please .
`` Stephen , come quick !
Emmeline's nearly here , '' I cried .
Prissy looked out of the window and wrung her hands .
`` Oh , she's in the lane now , '' she gasped .
`` He can't get out of the house without her seeing him .
Oh , Rosanna , what shall we do ? ''
I really don't know what would have become of those two people if I hadn't been in existence to find ideas for them .
`` Take Stephen up to the garret and hide him there , Prissy , '' I said firmly , `` and take him quick . ''
Prissy took him quick , but she had barely time to get back to the kitchen before Emmeline marched in -- mad as a wet hen because somebody had been ahead of her offering to sit up with Jane Lawson , and so she lost the chance of poking and prying into things while Jane was asleep .
The minute she clapped eyes on Prissy she suspected something .
It wasn't any wonder , for there was Prissy , all dressed up , with flushed cheeks and shining eyes .
She was all in a quiver of excitement , and looked ten years younger .
`` Priscilla Strong , you've been expecting Stephen Clark here this evening ! ''
burst out Emmeline .
`` You wicked , deceitful , underhanded , ungrateful creature ! ''
And she went on storming at Prissy , who began to cry , and looked so weak and babyish that I was frightened she would betray the whole thing .
`` This is between you and Prissy , Emmeline , '' I struck in , `` and I 'm not going to interfere .
But I want to get you to come over and show me how to tuft my comfort that new pattern you learned in Avonlea , and as it had better be done before dark I wish you 'd come right away . ''
`` I s ` pose I'll go , '' said Emmeline ungraciously , `` but Priscilla shall come , too , for I see that she isn't to be trusted out of my sight after this . ''
I hoped Stephen would see us from the garret window and make good his escape .
But I didn't dare trust to chance , so when I got Emmeline safely to work on my comfort I excused myself and slipped out .
Luckily my kitchen was on the off side of the house , but I was a nervous woman as I rushed across to the Strong place and dashed up Emmeline's garret stairs to Stephen .
It was fortunate I had come , for he didn't know we had gone .
Prissy had hidden him behind the loom and he didn't dare move for fear Emmeline would hear him on that creaky floor .
He was a sight with cobwebs .
I got him down and smuggled him into our barn , and he stayed there until it was dark and the Strong girls had gone home .
Emmeline began to rage at Prissy the moment they were outside my door .
Then Stephen came in and we talked things over .
He and Prissy had made good use of their time , short as it had been .
Prissy had promised to marry him , and all that remained was to get the ceremony performed .
`` And that will be no easy matter , '' I warned him .
`` Now that Emmeline's suspicions are aroused she'll never let Prissy out of her sight until you 're married to another woman , if it's years .
I know Emmeline Strong .
And I know Prissy .
If it was any other girl in the world she 'd run away , or manage it somehow , but Prissy never will .
She's too much in the habit of obeying Emmeline .
You'll have an obedient wife , Stephen -- if you ever get her . ''
Stephen looked as if he thought that wouldn't be any drawback .
Gossip said that Althea had been pretty bossy .
I don't know .
Maybe it was so .
`` Can't you suggest something , Rosanna ? ''
he implored .
`` You've helped us so far , and I'll never forget it . ''
`` The only thing I can think of is for you to have the license ready , and speak to Mr. Leonard , and keep an eye on our ventilator , '' I said .
`` I'll watch here and signal whenever there's an opening . ''
Well , I watched and Stephen watched , and Mr. Leonard was in the plot , too .
Prissy was always a favourite of his , and he would have been more than human , saint as he is , if he 'd had any love for Emmeline , after the way she was always trying to brew up strife in the church .
But Emmeline was a match for us all .
She never let Prissy out of her sight .
Everywhere she went she toted Prissy , too .
When a month had gone by , I was almost in despair .
Mr. Leonard had to leave for the Assembly in another week and Stephen's neighbours were beginning to talk about him .
They said that a man who spent all his time hanging around the yard with a spyglass , and trusting everything to a hired boy , couldn't be altogether right in his mind .
I could hardly believe my eyes when I saw Emmeline driving away one day alone .
As soon as she was out of sight I whisked over , and Anne Shirley and Diana Barry went with me .
They were visiting me that afternoon .
Diana's mother was my second cousin , and , as we visited back and forth frequently , I 'd often seen Diana .
But I 'd never seen her chum , Anne Shirley , although I 'd heard enough about her to drive anyone frantic with curiosity .
So when she came home from Redmond College that summer I asked Diana to take pity on me and bring her over some afternoon .
I wasn't disappointed in her .
I considered her a beauty , though some people couldn't see it .
She had the most magnificent red hair and the biggest , shiningest eyes I ever saw in a girl's head .
As for her laugh , it made me feel young again to hear it .
She and Diana both laughed enough that afternoon , for I told them , under solemn promise of secrecy , all about poor Prissy's love affair .
So nothing would do them but they must go over with me .
The appearance of the house amazed me .
All the shutters were closed and the door locked .
I knocked and knocked , but there was no answer .
Then I walked around the house to the only window that hadn't shutters -- a tiny one upstairs .
I knew it was the window in the closet off the room where the girls slept .
I stopped under it and called Prissy .
Before long Prissy came and opened it .
She was so pale and woe-begone looking that I pitied her with all my heart .
`` Prissy , where has Emmeline gone ? ''
I asked .
`` Down to Avonlea to see the Roger Pyes .
They 're sick with measles , and Emmeline couldn't take me because I've never had measles . ''
Poor Prissy !
She had never had anything a body ought to have .
`` Then you just come and unfasten a shutter , and come right over to my house , '' I said exultantly .
`` We'll have Stephen and the minister here in no time . ''
`` I can't -- Em ` line has locked me in here , '' said Prissy woefully .
I was posed .
No living mortal bigger than a baby could have got in or out of that closet window .
`` Well , '' I said finally , `` I'll put the signal up for Stephen anyhow , and we'll see what can be done when he gets here . ''
I didn't know how I was ever to get the signal up on that ventilator , for it was one of the days I take dizzy spells ; and if I took one up on the ladder there 'd probably be a funeral instead of a wedding .
But Anne Shirley said she 'd put it up for me , and she did .
I had never seen that girl before , and I've never seen her since , but it's my opinion that there wasn't much she couldn't do if she made up her mind to do it .
Stephen wasn't long in getting there and he brought the minister with him .
Then we all , including Thomas -- who was beginning to get interested in the affair in spite of himself -- went over and held council of war beneath the closet window .
Thomas suggested breaking in doors and carrying Prissy off boldly , but I could see that Mr. Leonard looked very dubious over that , and even Stephen said he thought it could only be done as a last resort .
I agreed with him .
I knew Emmeline Strong would bring an action against him for housebreaking as likely as not .
She 'd be so furious she 'd stick at nothing if we gave her any excuse .
Then Anne Shirley , who couldn't have been more excited if she was getting married herself , came to the rescue again .
`` Couldn't you put a ladder up to the closet window , '' she said , `` And Mr. Clark can go up it and they can be married there .
Can't they , Mr. Leonard ? ''
Mr. Leonard agreed that they could .
He was always the most saintly looking man , but I know I saw a twinkle in his eye .
`` Thomas , go over and bring our little ladder over here , '' I said .
Thomas forgot he was an elder , and he brought the ladder as quick as it was possible for a fat man to do it .
After all it was too short to reach the window , but there was no time to go for another .
Stephen went up to the top of it , and he reached up and Prissy reached down , and they could just barely clasp hands so .
I shall never forget the look of Prissy .
The window was so small she could only get her head and one arm out of it .
Besides , she was almost frightened to death .
Mr. Leonard stood at the foot of the ladder and married them .
As a rule , he makes a very long and solemn thing of the marriage ceremony , but this time he cut out everything that wasn't absolutely necessary ; and it was well that he did , for just as he pronounced them man and wife , Emmeline drove into the lane .
She knew perfectly well what had happened when she saw the minister with his blue book in his hand .
Never a word said she .
She marched to the front door , unlocked it , and strode upstairs .
I've always been convinced it was a mercy that closet window was so small , or I believe that she would have thrown Prissy out of it .
As it was , she walked her downstairs by the arm and actually flung her at Stephen .
`` There , take your wife , '' she said , `` and I'll pack up every stitch she owns and send it after her ; and I never want to see her or you again as long as I live . ''
Then she turned to me and Thomas .
`` As for you that have aided and abetted that weakminded fool in this , take yourselves out of my yard and never darken my door again . ''
`` Goodness , who wants to , you old spitfire ? ''
said Thomas .
It wasn't just the thing for him to say , perhaps , but we are all human , even elders .
The girls didn't escape .
Emmeline looked daggers at them .
`` This will be something for you to carry back to Avonlea , '' she said .
`` You gossips down there will have enough to talk about for a spell .
That's all you ever go out of Avonlea for -- just to fetch and carry tales . ''
Finally she finished up with the minister .
`` I 'm going to the Baptist church in Spencervale after this , '' she said .
Her tone and look said a hundred other things .
She whirled into the house and slammed the door .
Mr. Leonard looked around on us with a pitying smile as Stephen put poor , half-fainting Prissy into the buggy .
`` I am very sorry , '' he said in that gently , saintly way of his , `` for the Baptists . ''
