Once upon a time there lived a poor fisher who built a hut on the banks of a stream which , shunning the glare of the sun and the noise of the towns , flowed quietly past trees and under bushes , listening to the songs of the birds overhead .
One day , when the fisherman had gone out as usual to cast his nets , he saw borne towards him on the current a cradle of crystal .
Slipping his net quickly beneath it he drew it out and lifted the silk coverlet .
Inside , lying on a soft bed of cotton , were two babies , a boy and a girl , who opened their eyes and smiled at him .
The man was filled with pity at the sight , and throwing down his lines he took the cradle and the babies home to his wife .
The good woman flung up her hands in despair when she beheld the contents of the cradle .
` Are not eight children enough , ' she cried , ` without bringing us two more ?
How do you think we can feed them ? '
` You would not have had me leave them to die of hunger , ' answered he , ` or be swallowed up by the waves of the sea ?
What is enough for eight is also enough for ten . '
The wife said no more ; and in truth her heart yearned over the little creatures .
Somehow or other food was never lacking in the hut , and the children grew up and were so good and gentle that , in time , their foster-parents loved them as well or better than their own , who were quarrelsome and envious .
It did not take the orphans long to notice that the boys did not like them , and were always playing tricks on them , so they used to go away by themselves and spend whole hours by the banks of the river .
Here they would take out the bits of bread they had saved from their breakfasts and crumble them for the birds .
In return , the birds taught them many things : how to get up early in the morning , how to sing , and how to talk their language , which very few people know .
But though the little orphans did their best to avoid quarrelling with their foster-brothers , it was very difficult always to keep the peace .
Matters got worse and worse till , one morning , the eldest boy said to the twins : ` It is all very well for you to pretend that you have such good manners , and are so much better than we , but we have at least a father and mother , while you have only got the river , like the toads and the frogs . '
The poor children did not answer the insult ; but it made them very unhappy .
And they told each other in whispers that they could not stay there any longer , but must go into the world and seek their fortunes .
So next day they arose as early as the birds and stole downstairs without anybody hearing them .
One window was open , and they crept softly out and ran to the side of the river .
Then , feeling as if they had found a friend , they walked along its banks , hoping that by-and-by they should meet some one to take care of them .
The whole of that day they went steadily on without seeing a living creature , till , in the evening , weary and footsore , they saw before them a small hut .
This raised their spirits for a moment ; but the door was shut , and the hut seemed empty , and so great was their disappointment that they almost cried .
However , the boy fought down his tears , and said cheerfully : ` Well , at any rate here is a bench where we can sit down , and when we are rested we will think what is best to do next . '
Then they sat down , and for some time they were too tired even to notice anything ; but by-and-by they saw that under the tiles of the roof a number of swallows were sitting , chattering merrily to each other .
Of course the swallows had no idea that the children understood their language , or they would not have talked so freely ; but , as it was , they said whatever came into their heads .
` Good evening , my fine city madam , ' remarked a swallow , whose manners were rather rough and countryfied to another who looked particularly distinguished .
` Happy , indeed , are the eyes that behold you !
Only think of your having returned to your long-forgotten country friends , after you have lived for years in a palace ! ' '
I have inherited this nest from my parents , ' replied the other , ` and as they left it to me I certainly shall make it my home .
But , ' she added politely , ' I hope that you and all your family are well ? '
` Very well indeed , I am glad to say .
But my poor daughter had , a short time ago , such bad inflammation in her eyes that she would have gone blind had I not been able to find the magic herb , which cured her at once . '
` And how is the nightingale singing ?
Does the lark soar as high as ever ?
And does the linnet dress herself as smartly ? '
But here the country swallow drew herself up . '
I never talk gossip , ' she said severely .
` Our people , who were once so innocent and well-behaved , have been corrupted by the bad examples of men .
It is a thousand pities . '
` What !
innocence and good behaviour are not to be met with among birds , nor in the country !
My dear friend , what are you saying ? '
` The truth and nothing more .
Imagine , when we returned here , we met some linnets who , just as the spring and the flowers and the long days had come , were setting out for the north and the cold ?
Out of pure compassion we tried to persuade them to give up this folly ; but they only replied with the utmost insolence . '
` How shocking ! '
exclaimed the city swallow .
` Yes , it was .
And worse than that , the crested lark , that was formerly so timid and shy , is now no better than a thief , and steals maize and corn whenever she can find them . ' '
I am astonished at what you say . '
` You will be more astonished when I tell you that on my arrival here for the summer I found my nest occupied by a shameless sparrow !
`` This is my nest , '' I said .
`` Yours ? ''
he answered , with a rude laugh .
`` Yes , mine ; my ancestors were born here , and my sons will be born here also . ''
And at that my husband set upon him and threw him out of the nest .
I am sure nothing of this sort ever happens in a town . '
` Not exactly , perhaps .
But I have seen a great deal -- if you only knew ! '
` Oh !
do tell us !
do tell us ! '
cried they all .
And when they had settled themselves comfortably , the city swallow began : ` You must know , then that our king fell in love with the youngest daughter of a tailor , who was as good and gentle as she was beautiful .
His nobles hoped that he would have chosen a queen from one of their daughters , and tried to prevent the marriage ; but the king would not listen to them , and it took place .
Not many months later a war broke out , and the king rode away at the head of his army , while the queen remained behind , very unhappy at the separation .
When peace was made , and the king returned , he was told that his wife had had two babies in his absence , but that both were dead ; that she herself had gone out of her mind and was obliged to be shut up in a tower in the mountains , where , in time , the fresh air might cure her . '
` And was this not true ? '
asked the swallows eagerly .
` Of course not , ' answered the city lady , with some contempt for their stupidity .
` The children were alive at that very moment in the gardener's cottage ; but at night the chamberlain came down and put them in a cradle of crystal , which he carried to the river .
` For a whole day they floated safely , for though the stream was deep it was very still , and the children took no harm .
In the morning -- so I am told by my friend the kingfisher -- they were rescued by a fisherman who lived near the river bank . '
The children had been lying on the bench , listening lazily to the chatter up to this point ; but when they heard the story of the crystal cradle which their foster-mother had always been fond of telling them , they sat upright and looked at each other .
` Oh , how glad I am I learnt the birds ' language ! '
said the eyes of one to the eyes of the other .
Meanwhile the swallows had spoken again .
` That was indeed good fortune ! '
cried they .
` And when the children are grown up they can return to their father and set their mother free . '
` It will not be so easy as you think , ' answered the city swallow , shaking her head ; ` for they will have to prove that they are the king's children , and also that their mother never went mad at all .
In fact , it is so difficult that there is only one way of proving it to the king . '
` And what is that ? '
cried all the swallows at once .
` And how do you know it ? ' '
I know it , ' answered the city swallow , ` because , one day , when I was passing through the palace garden , I met a cuckoo , who , as I need not tell you , always pretends to be able to see into the future .
We began to talk about certain things which were happening in the palace , and of the events of past years .
`` Ah , '' said he , `` the only person who can expose the wickedness of the ministers and show the king how wrong he has been , is the Bird of Truth , who can speak the language of men . '' '
`` And where can this bird be found ? ''
I asked . '
`` It is shut up in a castle guarded by a fierce giant , who only sleeps one quarter of an hour out of the whole twenty-four , '' replied the cuckoo .
` And where is this castle ? '
inquired the country swallow , who , like all the rest , and the children most of all , had been listening with deep attention .
` That is just what I don't know , ' answered her friend .
` All I can tell you is that not far from here is a tower , where dwells an old witch , and it is she who knows the way , and she will only teach it to the person who promises to bring her the water from the fountain of many colours , which she uses for her enchantments .
But never will she betray the place where the Bird of Truth is hidden , for she hates him , and would kill him if she could ; knowing well , however , that this bird can not die , as he is immortal , she keeps him closely shut up , and guarded night and day by the Birds of Bad Faith , who seek to gag him so that his voice should not be heard . '
` And is there no one else who can tell the poor boy where to find the bird , if he should ever manage to reach the tower ? '
asked the country swallow .
` No one , ' replied the city swallow , ` except an owl , who lives a hermit's life in that desert , and he knows only one word of man's speech , and that is `` cross . ''
So that even if the prince did succeed in getting there , he could never understand what the owl said .
But , look , the sun is sinking to his nest in the depths of the sea , and I must go to mine .
Good-night , friends , good-night ! '
Then the swallow flew away , and the children , who had forgotten both hunger and weariness in the joy of this strange news , rose up and followed in the direction of her flight .
After two hours ' walking , they arrived at a large city , which they felt sure must be the capital of their father's kingdom .
Seeing a good-natured looking woman standing at the door of a house , they asked her if she would give them a night's lodging , and she was so pleased with their pretty faces and nice manners that she welcomed them warmly .
It was scarcely light the next morning before the girl was sweeping out the rooms , and the boy watering the garden , so that by the time the good woman came downstairs there was nothing left for her to do .
This so delighted her that she begged the children to stay with her altogether , and the boy answered that he would leave his sisters with her gladly , but that he himself had serious business on hand and must not linger in pursuit of it .
So he bade them farewell and set out .
For three days he wandered by the most out-of-the-way paths , but no signs of a tower were to be seen anywhere .
On the fourth morning it was just the same , and , filled with despair , he flung himself on the ground under a tree and hid his face in his hands .
In a little while he heard a rustling over his head , and looking up , he saw a turtle dove watching him with her bright eyes .
` Oh dove ! '
cried the boy , addressing the bird in her own language , ` Oh dove !
tell me , I pray you , where is the castle of Come-and-never-go ? '
` Poor child , ' answered the dove , ` who has sent you on such a useless quest ? '
` My good or evil fortune , ' replied the boy , ' I know not which . '
` To get there , ' said the dove , ` you must follow the wind , which to-day is blowing towards the castle . '
The boy thanked her , and followed the wind , fearing all the time that it might change its direction and lead him astray .
But the wind seemed to feel pity for him and blew steadily on .
With each step the country became more and more dreary , but at nightfall the child could see behind the dark and bare rocks something darker still .
This was the tower in which dwelt the witch ; and seizing the knocker he gave three loud knocks , which were echoed in the hollows of the rocks around .
The door opened slowly , and there appeared on the threshold an old woman holding up a candle to her face , which was so hideous that the boy involuntarily stepped backwards , almost as frightened by the troop of lizards , beetles and such creatures that surrounded her , as by the woman herself .
` Who are you who dare to knock at my door and wake me ? '
cried she .
` Be quick and tell me what you want , or it will be the worse for you . '
` Madam , ' answered the child , ' I believe that you alone know the way to the castle of Come-and-never-go , and I pray you to show it to me . '
` Very good , ' replied the witch , with something that she meant for a smile , ` but to-day it is late .
To-morrow you shall go .
Now enter , and you shall sleep with my lizards . ' '
I can not stay , ' said he . '
I must go back at once , so as to reach the road from which I started before day dawns . '
` If I tell you , will you promise me that you will bring me this jar full of the many-coloured water from the spring in the court-yard of the castle ? '
asked she .
` If you fail to keep your word I will change you into a lizard for ever . ' '
I promise , ' answered the boy .
Then the old woman called to a very thin dog , and said to him : ` Conduct this pig of a child to the castle of Come-and-never-go , and take care that you warn my friend of his arrival . '
And the dog arose and shook itself , and set out .
At the end of two hours they stopped in front of a large castle , big and black and gloomy , whose doors stood wide open , although neither sound nor light gave sign of any presence within .
The dog , however , seemed to know what to expect , and , after a wild howl , went on ; but the boy , who was uncertain whether this was the quarter of an hour when the giant was asleep , hesitated to follow him , and paused for a moment under a wild olive that grew near by , the only tree which he had beheld since he had parted from the dove .
` Oh , heaven , help me ! '
cried he .
` Cross !
cross ! '
answered a voice .
The boy leapt for joy as he recognised the note of the owl of which the swallow had spoken , and he said softly in the bird's language : ` Oh , wise owl , I pray you to protect and guide me , for I have come in search of the Bird of Truth .
And first I must fill this far with the many-coloured water in the courtyard of the castle . '
` Do not do that , ' answered the owl , ` but fill the jar from the spring which bubbles close by the fountain with the many-coloured water .
Afterwards , go into the aviary opposite the great door , but be careful not to touch any of the bright-plumaged birds contained in it , which will cry to you , each one , that he is the Bird of Truth .
Choose only a small white bird that is hidden in a corner , which the others try incessantly to kill , not knowing that it can not die .
And , be quick !
-- for at this very moment the giant has fallen asleep , and you have only a quarter of an hour to do everything . '
The boy ran as fast as he could and entered the courtyard , where he saw the two spring close together .
He passed by the many-coloured water without casting a glance at it , and filled the jar from the fountain whose water was clear and pure .
He next hastened to the aviary , and was almost deafened by the clamour that rose as he shut the door behind him .
Voices of peacocks , voices of ravens , voices of magpies , each claiming to be the Bird of Truth .
With steadfast face the boy walked by them all , to the corner , where , hemmed in by a hand of fierce crows , was the small white bird he sought .
Putting her safely in his breast , he passed out , followed by the screams of the birds of Bad Faith which he left behind him .
Once outside , he ran without stopping to the witch's tower , and handed to the old woman the jar she had given him .
` Become a parrot ! '
cried she , flinging the water over him .
But instead of losing his shape , as so many had done before , he only grew ten times handsomer ; for the water was enchanted for good and not ill .
Then the creeping multitude around the witch hastened to roll themselves in the water , and stood up , human beings again .
When the witch saw what was happening , she took a broomstick and flew away .
Who can guess the delight of the sister at the sight of her brother , bearing the Bird of Truth ?
But although the boy had accomplished much , something very difficult yet remained , and that was how to carry the Bird of Truth to the king without her being seized by the wicked courtiers , who would be ruined by the discovery of their plot .
Soon -- no one knew how -- the news spread abroad that the Bird of Truth was hovering round the palace , and the courtiers made all sorts of preparations to hinder her reaching the king .
They got ready weapons that were sharpened , and weapons that were poisoned ; they sent for eagles and falcons to hunt her down , and constructed cages and boxes in which to shut her up if they were not able to kill her .
They declared that her white plumage was really put on to hide her black feathers -- in fact there was nothing they did not do in order to prevent the king from seeing the bird or from paying attention to her words if he did .
As often happens in these cases , the courtiers brought about that which they feared .
They talked so much about the Bird of Truth that at last the king heard of it , and expressed a wish to see her .
The more difficulties that were put in his way the stronger grew his desire , and in the end the king published a proclamation that whoever found the Bird of Truth should bring her to him without delay .
As soon as he saw this proclamation the boy called his sister , and they hastened to the palace .
The bird was buttoned inside his tunic , but , as might have been expected , the courtiers barred the way , and told the child that he could not enter .
It was in vain that the boy declared that he was only obeying the king's commands ; the courtiers only replied that his majesty was not yet out of bed , and it was forbidden to wake him .
They were still talking , when , suddenly , the bird settled the question by flying upwards through an open window into the king's own room .
Alighting on the pillow , close to the king's head , she bowed respectfully , and said : ` My lord , I am the Bird of Truth whom you wished to see , and I have been obliged to approach you in the manner because the boy who brought me is kept out of the palace by your courtiers . '
` They shall pay for their insolence , ' said the king .
And he instantly ordered one of his attendants to conduct the boy at once to his apartments ; and in a moment more the prince entered , holding his sister by the hand .
` Who are you ? '
asked the king ; ` and what has the Bird of Truth to do with you ? '
` If it please your majesty , the Bird of Truth will explain that herself , ' answered the boy .
And the bird did explain ; and the king heard for the first time of the wicked plot that had been successful for so many years .
He took his children in his arms , with tears in his eyes , and hurried off with them to the tower in the mountains where the queen was shut up .
The poor woman was as white as marble , for she had been living almost in darkness ; but when she saw her husband and children , the colour came back to her face , and she was as beautiful as ever .
They all returned in state to the city , where great rejoicings were held .
The wicked courtiers had their heads cut off , and all their property was taken away .
As for the good old couple , they were given riches and honour , and were loved and cherished to the end of their lives .
In a big forest in the north of America lived a quantity of wild animals of all sorts .
They were always very polite when they met ; but , in spite of that , they kept a close watch one upon the other , as each was afraid of being killed and eaten by somebody else .
But their manners were so good that no one would ever had guessed that .
One day a smart young wolf went out to hunt , promising his grandfather and grandmother that he would be sure to be back before bedtime .
He trotted along quite happily through the forest till he came to a favourite place of his , just where the river runs into the sea .
There , just as he had hoped , he saw the chief mink fishing in a canoe . '
I want to fish too , ' cried the wolf .
But the mink said nothing and pretended not to hear . '
I wish you would take me into your boat ! '
shouted the wolf , louder than before , and he continued to beseech the mink so long that at last he grew tired of it , and paddled to the shore close enough for the wolf to jump in .
` Sit down quietly at that end or we shall be upset , ' said the mink ; ` and if you care about sea-urchins ' eggs , you will find plenty in that basket .
But be sure you eat only the white ones , for the red ones would kill you . '
So the wolf , who was always hungry , began to eat the eggs greedily ; and when he had finished he told the mink he thought he would have a nap .
` Well , then , stretch yourself out , and rest your head on that piece of wood , ' said the mink .
And the wolf did as he was bid , and was soon fast asleep .
Then the mink crept up to him and stabbed him to the heart with his knife , and he died without moving .
After that he landed on the beach , skinned the wolf , and taking the skin to his cottage , he hung it up before the fire to dry .
Not many days later the wolf's grandmother , who , with the help of her relations , had been searching for him everywhere , entered the cottage to buy some sea-urchins ' eggs , and saw the skin , which she at once guessed to be that of her grandson . '
I knew he was dead -- I knew it !
I knew it ! '
she cried , weeping bitterly , till the mink told her rudely that if she wanted to make so much noise she had better do it outside as he liked to be quiet .
So , half-blinded by her tears , the old woman went home the way she had come , and running in at the door , she flung herself down in front of the fire .
` What are you crying for ? '
asked the old wolf and some friends who had been spending the afternoon with him . '
I shall never see my grandson any more ! '
answered she .
` Mink has killed him , oh !
oh ! '
And putting her head down , she began to weep as loudly as ever .
` There !
there ! '
said her husband , laying his paw on her shoulder .
` Be comforted ; if he IS dead , we will avenge him . '
And calling to the others they proceeded to talk over the best plan .
It took them a long time to make up their minds , as one wolf proposed one thing and one another ; but at last it was agreed that the old wolf should give a great feast in his house , and that the mink should be invited to the party .
And in order that no time should be lost it was further agreed that each wolf should bear the invitations to the guests that lived nearest to him .
Now the wolves thought they were very cunning , but the mink was more cunning still ; and though he sent a message by a white hare , that was going that way , saying he should be delighted to be present , he determined that he would take his precautions .
So he went to a mouse who had often done him a good turn , and greeted her with his best bow . '
I have a favour to ask of you , friend mouse , ' said he , ` and if you will grant it I will carry you on my back every night for a week to the patch of maize right up the hill . '
` The favour is mine , ' answered the mouse .
` Tell me what it is that I can have the honour of doing for you . '
` Oh , something quite easy , ' replied the mink . '
I only want you -- between to-day and the next full moon -- to gnaw through the bows and paddles of the wolf people , so that directly they use them they will break .
But of course you must manage it so that they notice nothing . '
` Of course , ' answered the mouse , ` nothing is easier ; but as the full moon is to-morrow night , and there is not much time , I had better begin at once . '
Then the mink thanked her , and went his way ; but before he had gone far he came back again .
` Perhaps , while you are about the wolf's house seeing after the bows , it would do no harm if you were to make that knot-hole in the wall a little bigger , ' said he .
` Not large enough to draw attention , of course ; but it might come in handy . '
And with another nod he left her .
The next evening the mink washed and brushed himself carefully and set out for the feast .
He smiled to himself as he looked at the dusty track , and perceived that though the marks of wolves ' feet were many , not a single guest was to be seen anywhere .
He knew very well what that meant ; but he had taken his precautions and was not afraid .
The house door stood open , but through a crack the mink could see the wolves crowding in the corner behind it .
However , he entered boldly , and as soon as he was fairly inside the door was shut with a bang , and the whole herd sprang at him , with their red tongues hanging out of their mouths .
Quick as they were they were too late , for the mink was already through the knot-hole and racing for his canoe .
The knot-hole was too small for the wolves , and there were so many of them in the hut that it was some time before they could get the door open .
Then they seized the bows and arrows which were hanging on the walls and , once outside , aimed at the flying mink ; but as they pulled the bows broke in their paws , so they threw them away , and bounded to the shore , with all their speed , to the place where their canoes were drawn up on the beach .
Now , although the mink could not run as fast as the wolves , he had a good start , and was already afloat when the swiftest among them threw themselves into the nearest canoe .
They pushed off , but as they dipped the paddles into the water , they snapped as the bows had done , and were quite useless . '
I know where there are some new ones , ' cried a young fellow , leaping on shore and rushing to a little cave at the back of the beach .
And the mink's heart smote him when he heard , for he had not known of this secret store .
After a long chase the wolves managed to surround their prey , and the mink , seeing it was no good resisting any more , gave himself up .
Some of the elder wolves brought out some cedar bands , which they always carried wound round their bodies , but the mink laughed scornfully at the sight of them .
` Why I could snap those in a moment , ' said he ; ` if you want to make sure that I can not escape , better take a line of kelp and bind me with that . '
` You are right , ' answered the grandfather ; ` your wisdom is greater than ours . '
And he bade his servants gather enough kelp from the rocks to make a line , as they had brought none with them .
` While the line is being made you might as well let me have one last dance , ' remarked the mink .
And the wolves replied : ` Very good , you may have your dance ; perhaps it may amuse us as well as you . '
So they brought two canoes and placed them one beside the other .
The mink stood up on his hind legs and began to dance , first in one canoe and then in the other ; and so graceful was he , that the wolves forgot they were going to put him to death , and howled with pleasure .
` Pull the canoes a little apart ; they are too close for this new dance , ' he said , pausing for a moment .
And the wolves separated them while he gave a series of little springs , sometime pirouetting while he stood with one foot on the prow of both .
` Now nearer , now further apart , ' he would cry as the dance went on .
` No !
further still . '
And springing into the air , amidst howls of applause , he came down head-foremost , and dived to the bottom .
And through the wolves , whose howls had now changed into those of rage , sought him everywhere , they never found him , for he hid behind a rock till they were out of sight , and then made his home in another forest .
