Once upon a time there lived a princess who was so beautiful and so good that everybody loved her .
Her father could hardly bear her out of his sight , and he almost died of grief when , one day , she disappeared , and though the whole kingdom was searched through and through , she could not be found in any corner of it .
In despair , the king ordered a proclamation to be made that whoever could bring her back to the palace should have her for his wife .
This made the young men start afresh on the search , but they were no more successful than before , and returned sorrowfully to their homes .
Now there dwelt , not far from the palace , an old man who had three sons .
The two eldest were allowed by their parents to do just as they liked , but the youngest was always obliged to give way to his brothers .
When they were all grown up , the eldest told his father that he was tired of leading such a quiet life , and that he meant to go away and see the world .
The old people were very unhappy at the thought that they must part with him , but they said nothing , and began to collect all that he would want for his travels , and were careful to add a pair of new boots .
When everything was ready , he bade them farewell , and started merrily on his way .
For some miles his road lay through a wood , and when he left it he suddenly came out on a bare hillside .
Here he sat down to rest , and pulling out his wallet prepared to eat his dinner .
He had only eaten a few mouthfuls when an old man badly dressed passed by , and seeing the food , asked if the young man could not spare him a little .
` Not I , indeed ! '
answered he ; ` why I have scarcely enough for myself .
If you want food you must earn it . '
And the beggar went on .
After the young man had finished his dinner he rose and walked on for several hours , till he reached a second hill , where he threw himself down on the grass , and took some bread and milk from his wallet .
While he was eating and drinking , there came by an old man , yet more wretched than the first , and begged for a few mouthfuls .
But instead of food he only got hard words , and limped sadly away .
Towards evening the young man reached an open space in the wood , and by this time he thought he would like some supper .
The birds saw the food , and flew round his head in numbers hoping for some crumbs , but he threw stones at them , and frightened them off .
Then he began to wonder where he should sleep .
Not in the open space he was in , for that was bare and cold , and though he had walked a long way that day , and was tired , he dragged himself up , and went on seeking for a shelter .
At length he saw a deep sort of hole or cave under a great rock , and as it seemed quite empty , he went in , and lay down in a corner .
About midnight he was awakened by a noise , and peeping out he beheld a terrible ogress approaching .
He implored her not to hurt him , but to let him stay there for the rest of the night , to which she consented , on condition that he should spend the next day in doing any task which she might choose to set him .
To this the young man willingly agreed , and turned over and went to sleep again .
In the morning , the ogress bade him sweep the dust out of the cave , and to have it clean before her return in the evening , otherwise it would be the worse for him .
Then she left the cave .
The young man took the spade , and began to clean the floor of the cave , but try as he would to move it the dirt still stuck to its place .
He soon gave up the task , and sat sulkily in the corner , wondering what punishment the ogress would find for him , and why she had set him to do such an impossible thing .
He had not long to wait , after the ogress came home , before he knew what his punishment was to be !
She just gave one look at the floor of the cave , then dealt him a blow on the head which cracked his skull , and there was an end of him .
Meanwhile his next brother grew tired of staying at home , and let his parents have no rest till they had consented that he also should be given some food and some new boots , and go out to see the world .
On his road , he also met the two old beggars , who prayed for a little of his bread and milk , but this young man had never been taught to help other people , and had made it a rule through his life to keep all he had to himself .
So he turned a deaf ear and finished his dinner .
By-and-by he , too , came to the cave , and was bidden by the ogress to clean the floor , but he was no more successful than his brother , and his fate was the same .
Anyone would have thought that when the old people had only one son left that at least they would have been kind to him , even if they did not love him .
But for some reason they could hardly bear the sight of him , though he tried much harder to make them comfortable than his brothers had ever done .
So when he asked their leave to go out into the world they gave it at once , and seemed quite glad to be rid of him .
They felt it was quite generous of them to provide him with a pair of new boots and some bread and milk for his journey .
Besides the pleasure of seeing the world , the youth was very anxious to discover what had become of his brothers , and he determined to trace , as far as he could , the way that they must have gone .
He followed the road that led from his father's cottage to the hill , where he sat down to rest , saying to himself : ' I am sure my brothers must have stopped here , and I will do the same . '
He was hungry as well as tired , and took out some of the food his parents had given him .
He was just going to begin to eat when the old man appeared , and asked if he could not spare him a little .
The young man at once broke off some of the bread , begging the old man to sit down beside him , and treating him as if he was an old friend .
At last the stranger rose , and said to him : ` If ever you are in trouble call me , and I will help you .
My name is Tritill . '
Then he vanished , and the young man could not tell where he had gone .
However , he felt he had now rested long enough , and that he had better be going his way .
At the next hill he met with the second old man , and to him also he gave food and drink .
And when this old man had finished he said , like the first : ` If you ever want help in the smallest thing call to me .
My name is Litill . '
The young man walked on till he reached the open space in the wood , where he stopped for dinner .
In a moment all the birds in the world seemed flying round his head , and he crumbled some of his bread for them and watched them as they darted down to pick it up .
When they had cleared off every crumb the largest bird with the gayest plumage said to him : ` If you are in trouble and need help say , `` My birds , come to me ! ''
and we will come . '
Then they flew away .
Towards evening the young man reached the cave where his brothers had met their deaths , and , like them , he thought it would be a good place to sleep in .
Looking round , he saw some pieces of the dead men's clothes and of their bones .
The sight made him shiver , but he would not move away , and resolved to await the return of the ogress , for such he knew she must be .
Very soon she came striding in , and he asked politely if she would give him a night's lodging .
She answered as before , that he might stay on condition that he should do any work that she might set him to next morning .
So the bargain being concluded , the young man curled himself up in his corner and went to sleep .
The dirt lay thicker than ever on the floor of the cave when the young man took the spade and began his work .
He could not clear it any more than his brothers had done , and at last the spade itself stuck in the earth so that he could not pull it out .
The youth stared at it in despair , then the old beggar's words flashed into his mind , and he cried : ` Tritill , Tritill , come and help me ! '
And Tritill stood beside him and asked what he wanted .
The youth told him all his story , and when he had finished , the old man said : ` Spade and shovel do your duty , ' and they danced about the cave till , in a short time , there was not a speck of dust left on the floor .
As soon as it was quite clean Tritill went his way .
With a light heart the young man awaited the return of the ogress .
When she came in she looked carefully round , and then said to him : ` You did not do that quite alone .
However , as the floor is clean I will leave your head on . '
The following morning the ogress told the young man that he must take all the feathers out of her pillows and spread them to dry in the sun .
But if one feather was missing when she came back at night his head should pay for it . '
The young man fetched the pillows , and shook out all the feathers , and oh !
what quantities of them there were !
He was thinking to himself , as he spread them out carefully , how lucky it was that the sun was so bright and that there was no wind , when suddenly a breeze sprang up , and in a moment the feathers were dancing high in the air .
At first the youth tried to collect them again , but he soon found that it was no use , and he cried in despair : ` Tritill , Litill , and all my birds , come and help me ! '
He had hardly said the words when there they all were ; and when the birds had brought all the feathers back again , Tritill , and Litill , and he , put them away in the pillows , as the ogress had bidden him .
But one little feather they kept out , and told the young man that if the ogress missed it he was to thrust it up her nose .
Then they all vanished , Tritill , Litill , and the birds .
Directly the ogress returned home she flung herself with all her weight on the bed , and the whole cave quivered under her .
The pillows were soft and full instead of being empty , which surprised her , but that did not content her .
She got up , shook out the pillow-cases one by one , and began to count the feathers that were in each .
` If one is missing I will have your head , ' said she , and at that the young man drew the feather from his pocket and thrust it up her nose , crying ` If you want your feather , here it is . '
` You did not sort those feathers alone , ' answered the ogress calmly ; ` however , this time I will let that pass . '
That night the young man slept soundly in his corner , and in the morning the ogress told him that his work that day would be to slay one of her great oxen , to cook its heart , and to make drinking cups of its horns , before she returned home ` There are fifty oxen , ' added she , ` and you must guess which of the herd I want killed .
If you guess right , to-morrow you shall be free to go where you will , and you shall choose besides three things as a reward for your service .
But if you slay the wrong ox your head shall pay for it . '
Left alone , the young man stood thinking for a little .
Then he called : ` Tritill , Litill , come to my help ! '
In a moment he saw them , far away , driving the biggest ox the youth had ever seen .
When they drew near , Tritill killed it , Litill took out its heart for the young man to cook , and both began quickly to turn the horns into drinking cups .
The work went merrily on , and they talked gaily , and the young man told his friends of the payment promised him by the ogress if he had done her bidding .
The old men warned him that he must ask her for the chest which stood at the foot of her bed , for whatever lay on the top of the bed , and for what lay under the side of the cave .
The young man thanked them for their counsel , and Tritill and Litill then took leave of him , saying that for the present he would need them no more .
Scarcely had they disappeared when the ogress came back , and found everything ready just as she had ordered .
Before she sat down to eat the bullock's heart she turned to the young man , and said : ` You did not do that all alone , my friend ; but , nevertheless , I will keep my word , and to-morrow you shall go your way . '
So they went to bed and slept till dawn .
When the sun rose the ogress awoke the young man , and called to him to choose any three things out of her house . '
I choose , ' answered he , ` the chest which stands at the foot of your bed ; whatever lies on the top of the bed , and whatever is under the side of the cave . '
` You did not choose those things by yourself , my friend , ' said the ogress ; ` but what I have promised , that will I do . '
And then she gave him his reward .
` The thing which lay on the top of the bed ' turned out to be the lost princess .
` The chest which stood at the foot of the bed ' proved full of gold and precious stones ; and ` what was under the side of the cave ' he found to be a great ship , with oars and sails that went of itself as well on land as in the water .
` You are the luckiest man that ever was born , ' said the ogress as she went out of the cave as usual .
With much difficulty the youth put the heavy chest on his shoulders and carried it on board the ship , the princess walking by his side .
Then he took the helm and steered the vessel back to her father's kingdom .
The king's joy at receiving back his lost daughter was so great that he almost fainted , but when he recovered himself he made the young man tell him how everything had really happened .
` You have found her , and you shall marry her , ' said the king ; and so it was done .
And this is the end of the story .
The Three Robes Long , long ago , a king and queen reigned over a large and powerful country .
What their names were nobody knows , but their son was called Sigurd , and their daughter Lineik , and these young people were famed throughout the whole kingdom for their wisdom and beauty .
There was only a year between them , and they loved each other so much that they could do nothing apart .
When they began to grow up the king gave them a house of their own to live in , with servants and carriages , and everything they could possibly want .
For many years they all lived happily together , and then the queen fell ill , and knew that she would never get better .
` Promise me two things , ' she said one day to the king ; ` one , that if you marry again , as indeed you must , you will not choose as your wife a woman from some small state or distant island , who knows nothing of the world , and will be taken up with thoughts of her grandeur .
But rather seek out a princess of some great kingdom , who has been used to courts all her life , and holds them at their true worth .
The other thing I have to ask is , that you will never cease to watch over our children , who will soon become your greatest joy . '
These were the queen's last words , and a few hours later she was dead .
The king was so bowed down with sorrow that he would not attend even to the business of the kingdom , and at last his Prime Minister had to tell him that the people were complaining that they had nobody to right their wrongs .
` You must rouse yourself , sir , ' went on the minister , ` and put aside your own sorrows for the sake of your country . '
` You do not spare me , ' answered the king ; ` but what you say is just , and your counsel is good .
I have heard that men say , likewise , that it will be for the good of my kingdom for me to marry again , though my heart will never cease to be with my lost wife .
But it was her wish also ; therefore , to you I entrust the duty of finding a lady fitted to share my throne ; only , see that she comes neither from a small town nor a remote island . '
So an embassy was prepared , with the minister at its head , to visit the greatest courts in the world , and to choose out a suitable princess .
But the vessel which carried them had not been gone many days when a thick fog came on , and the captain could see neither to the right nor to the left .
For a whole month the ship drifted about in darkness , till at length the fog lifted and they beheld a cliff jutting out just in front .
On one side of the cliff lay a sheltered bay , in which the vessel was soon anchored , and though they did not know where they were , at any rate they felt sure of fresh fruit and water .
The minister left the rest of his followers on board the ship , and taking a small boat rowed himself to land , in order to look about him and to find out if the island was really as deserted as it seemed .
He had not gone far , when he heard the sound of music , and , turning in its direction , he saw a woman of marvellous beauty sitting on a low stool playing on a harp , while a girl beside her sang .
The minister stopped and greeted the lady politely , and she replied with friendliness , asking him why he had come to such an out-of-the way place .
In answer he told her of the object of his journey . '
I am in the same state as your master , ' replied the lady ; ' I was married to a mighty king who ruled over this land , till Vikings , sea-robbers , came and slew him and put all the people to death .
But I managed to escape , and hid myself here with my daughter . '
And the daughter listened , and said softly to her mother : ` Are you speaking the truth now ? '
` Remember your promise , ' answered the mother angrily , giving her a pinch which was unseen by the minister .
` What is your name , madam ? '
asked he , much touched by this sad story .
` Blauvor , ' she replied ` and my daughter is called Laufer ' ; and then she inquired the name of the minister , and of the king his master .
After this they talked of many things , and the lady showed herself learned in all that a woman should know , and even in much that men only were commonly taught .
` What a wife she would make for the king , ' thought the minister to himself , and before long he had begged the honour of her hand for his master .
She declared at first that she was too unworthy to accept the position offered her , and that the minister would soon repent his choice ; but this only made him the more eager , and in the end he gained her consent , and prevailed on her to return with him at once to his own country .
The minister then conducted the mother and daughter back to the ship ; the anchor was raised , the sails spread , and a fair wind was behind them .
Now that the fog had lifted they could see as they looked back that , except just along the shore , the island was bare and deserted and not fit for men to live in ; but about that nobody cared .
They had a quick voyage , and in six days they reached the land , and at once set out for the capital , a messenger being sent on first by the minister to inform the king of what had happened .
When his Majesty's eyes fell on the two beautiful women , clad in dresses of gold and silver , he forgot his sorrows and ordered preparations for the wedding to be made without delay .
In his joy he never remembered to inquire in what kind of country the future queen had been found .
In fact his head was so turned by the beauty of the two ladies that when the invitations were sent by his orders to all the great people in the kingdom , he did not even recollect his two children , who remained shut up in their own house !
After the marriage the king ceased to have any will of his own and did nothing without consulting his wife .
She was present at all his councils , and her opinion was asked before making peace or war .
But when a few months had passed the king began to have doubts as to whether the minister's choice had really been a wise one , and he noticed that his children lived more and more in their palace and never came near their stepmother .
It always happens that if a person's eyes are once opened they see a great deal more than they ever expected ; and soon it struck the king that the members of his court had a way of disappearing one after the other without any reason .
At first he had not paid much attention to the fact , but merely appointed some fresh person to the vacant place .
As , however , man after man vanished without leaving any trace , he began to grow uncomfortable and to wonder if the queen could have anything to do with it .
Things were in this state when , one day , his wife said to him that it was time for him to make a progress through his kingdom and see that his governors were not cheating him of the money that was his due .
` And you need not be anxious about going , ' she added , ` for I will rule the country while you are away as carefully as you could yourself . '
The king had no great desire to undertake this journey , but the queen's will was stronger than his , and he was too lazy to make a fight for it .
So he said nothing and set about his preparations , ordering his finest ship to be ready to carry him round the coast .
Still his heart was heavy , and he felt uneasy , though he could not have told why ; and the night before he was to start he went to the children's palace to take leave of his son and daughter .
He had not seen them for some time , and they gave him a warm welcome , for they loved him dearly and he had always been kind to them .
They had much to tell him , but after a while he checked their merry talk and said : ` If I should never come back from this journey I fear that it may not be safe for you to stay here ; so directly there are no more hopes of my return go instantly and take the road eastwards till you reach a high mountain , which you must cross .
Once over the mountain keep along by the side of a little bay till you come to two trees , one green and the other red , standing in a thicket , and so far back from the road that without looking for them you would never see them .
Hide each in the trunk of one of the trees and there you will be safe from all your enemies . '
With these words the king bade them farewell and entered sadly into his ship .
For a few days the wind was fair , and everything seemed going smoothly ; then , suddenly , a gale sprang up , and a fearful storm of thunder and lightning , such as had never happened within the memory of man .
In spite of the efforts of the frightened sailors the vessel was driven on the rocks , and not a man on board was saved .
That very night Prince Sigurd had a dream , in which he thought his father appeared to him in dripping clothes , and , taking the crown from his head , laid it at his son's feet , leaving the room as silently as he had entered it .
Hastily the prince awoke his sister Lineik , and they agreed that their father must be dead , and that they must lose no time in obeying his orders and putting themselves in safety .
So they collected their jewels and a few clothes and left the house without being observed by anyone .
They hurried on till they arrived at the mountain without once looking back .
Then Sigurd glanced round and saw that their stepmother was following them , with an expression on her face which made her uglier than the ugliest old witch .
Between her and them lay a thick wood , and Sigurd stopped for a moment to set it on fire ; then he and his sister hastened on more swiftly than before , till they reached the grove with the red and green trees , into which they jumped , and felt that at last they were safe .
Now , at that time there reigned over Greece a king who was very rich and powerful , although his name has somehow been forgotten .
He had two children , a son and a daughter , who were more beautiful and accomplished than any Greeks had been before , and they were the pride of their father's heart .
The prince had no sooner grown out of boyhood than he prevailed on his father to make war during the summer months on a neighbouring nation , so as to give him a chance of making himself famous .
In winter , however , when it was difficult to get food and horses in that wild country , the army was dispersed , and the prince returned home .
During one of these wars he had heard reports of the Princess Lineik's beauty , and he resolved to seek her out , and to ask for her hand in marriage .
All this Blauvor , the queen , found out by means of her black arts , and when the prince drew near the capital she put a splendid dress on her own daughter and then went to meet her guest .
She bade him welcome to her palace , and when they had finished supper she told him of the loss of her husband , and how there was no one left to govern the kingdom but herself .
` But where is the Princess Lineik ? '
asked the prince when she had ended her tale .
` Here , ' answered the queen , bringing forward the girl , whom she had hitherto kept in the background .
The prince looked at her and was rather disappointed .
The maiden was pretty enough , but not much out of the common .
` Oh , you must not wonder at her pale face and heavy eyes , ' said the queen hastily , for she saw what was passing in his mind .
` She has never got over the loss of both father and mother . '
` That shows a good heart , ' thought the prince ; ` and when she is happy her beauty will soon come back . '
And without any further delay he begged the queen to consent to their betrothal , for the marriage must take place in his own country .
The queen was enchanted .
She had hardly expected to succeed so soon , and she at once set about her preparations .
Indeed she wished to travel with the young couple , to make sure that nothing should go wrong ; but here the prince was firm , that he would take no one with him but Laufer , whom he thought was Lineik .
They soon took leave of the queen , and set sail in a splendid ship ; but in a short time a dense fog came on , and in the dark the captain steered out of his course , and they found themselves in a bay which was quite strange to all the crew .
The prince ordered a boat to be lowered , and went on shore to look about him , and it was not long before he noticed the two beautiful trees , quite different from any that grew in Greece .
Calling one of the sailors , he bade him cut them down , and carry them on board the ship .
This was done , and as the sky was now clear they put out to sea , and arrived in Greece without any more adventures .
The news that the prince had brought home a bride had gone before them , and they were greeted with flowery arches and crowns of coloured lights .
The king and queen met them on the steps of the palace , and conducted the girl to the women's house , where she would have to remain until her marriage .
The prince then went to his own rooms and ordered that the trees should be brought in to him .
The next morning the prince bade his attendants bring his future bride to his own apartments , and when she came he gave her silk which she was to weave into three robes -- one red , one green , and one blue -- and these must all be ready before the wedding .
The blue one was to be done first and the green last , and this was to be the most splendid of all , ` for I will wear it at our marriage , ' said he .
Left alone , Laufer sat and stared at the heap of shining silk before her .
She did not know how to weave , and burst into tears as she thought that everything would be discovered , for Lineik's skill in weaving was as famous as her beauty .
As she sat with her face hidden and her body shaken by sobs , Sigurd in his tree heard her and was moved to pity .
` Lineik , my sister , ' he called , softly , ` Laufer is weeping ; help her , I pray you . '
` Have you forgotten the wrongs her mother did to us ' answered Lineik , ` and that it is owing to her that we are banished from home ? '
But she was not really unforgiving , and very soon she slid quietly out of her hiding-place , and taking the silk from Laufer's hands began to weave it .
So quick and clever was she that the blue dress was not only woven but embroidered , and Lineik was safe back in her tree before the prince returned .
` It is the most beautiful work I have ever seen , ' said he , taking up a bit .
` And I am sure that the red one will be still better , because the stuff is richer , ' and with a low bow he left the room .
Laufer had hoped secretly that when the prince had seen the blue dress finished he would have let her off the other two ; but when she found she was expected to fulfil the whole task , her heart sank and she began to cry loudly .
Again Sigurd heard her , and begged Lineik to come to her help , and Lineik , feeling sorry for her distress , wove and embroidered the second dress as she had done the first , mixing gold thread and precious stones till you could hardly see the red of the stuff .
When it was done she glided into her tree just as the prince came in .
` You are as quick as you are clever , ' said he , admiringly .
` This looks as if it had been embroidered by the fairies !
But as the green robe must outshine the other two I will give you three days in which to finish it .
After it is ready we will be married at once . '
Now , as he spoke , there rose up in Laufer's mind all the unkind things that she and her mother had done to Lineik .
Could she hope that they would be forgotten , and that Lineik would come to her rescue for the third time ?
And perhaps Lineik , who had not forgotten the past either , might have left her alone , to get on as best she could , had not Sigurd , her brother , implored her to help just once more .
So Lineik again slid out of her tree , and , to Laufer's great relief , set herself to work .
When the shining green silk was ready she caught the sun's rays and the moon's beams on the point of her needle and wove them into a pattern such as no man had ever seen .
But it took a long time , and on the third morning , just as she was putting the last stitches into the last flower the prince came in .
Lineik jumped up quickly , and tried to get past him back to her tree ; but the folds of the silk were wrapped round her , and she would have fallen had not the prince caught her . '
I have thought for some time that all was not quite straight here , ' said he .
` Tell me who you are , and where you come from ? '
Lineik then told her name and her story .
When she had ended the prince turned angrily to Laufer , and declared that , as a punishment for her wicked lies , she deserved to die a shameful death .
But Laufer fell at his feet and begged for mercy .
It was her mother's fault , she said : ` It was she , and not I , who passed me off as the Princess Lineik .
The only lie I have ever told you was about the robes , and I do not deserve death for that . '
She was still on her knees when Prince Sigurd entered the room .
He prayed the Prince of Greece to forgive Laufer , which he did , on condition that Lineik would consent to marry him .
` Not till my stepmother is dead , ' answered she , ` for she has brought misery to all that came near her . '
Then Laufer told them that Blauvor was not the wife of a king , but an ogress who had stolen her from a neighbouring palace and had brought her up as her daughter .
And besides being an ogress she was also a witch , and by her black arts had sunk the ship in which the father of Sigurd and Lineik had set sail .
It was she who had caused the disappearance of the courtiers , for which no one could account , by eating them during the night , and she hoped to get rid of all the people in the country , and then to fill the land with ogres and ogresses like herself .
So Prince Sigurd and the Prince of Greece collected an army swiftly , and marched upon the town where Blauvor had her palace .
They came so suddenly that no one knew of it , and if they had , Blauvor had eaten most of the strong men ; and others , fearful of something they could not tell what , had secretly left the place .
Therefore she was easily captured , and the next day was beheaded in the market-place .
Afterwards the two princes marched back to Greece .
Lineik had no longer any reason for putting off her wedding , and married the Prince of Greece at the same time that Sigurd married the princess .
And Laufer remained with Lineik as her friend and sister , till they found a husband for her in a great nobleman ; and all three couples lived happily until they died .
