Thyra Carewe was waiting for Chester to come home .
She sat by the west window of the kitchen , looking out into the gathering of the shadows with the expectant immovability that characterized her .
She never twitched or fidgeted .
Into whatever she did she put the whole force of her nature .
If it was sitting still , she sat still .
`` A stone image would be twitchedly beside Thyra , '' said Mrs. Cynthia White , her neighbor across the lane .
`` It gets on my nerves , the way she sits at that window sometimes , with no more motion than a statue and her great eyes burning down the lane .
When I read the commandment , ` Thou shalt have no other gods before me , ' I declare I always think of Thyra .
She worships that son of hers far ahead of her Creator .
She'll be punished for it yet . ''
Mrs. White was watching Thyra now , knitting furiously , as she watched , in order to lose no time .
Thyra's hands were folded idly in her lap .
She had not moved a muscle since she sat down .
Mrs. White complained it gave her the weeps .
`` It doesn't seem natural to see a woman sit so still , '' she said .
`` Sometimes the thought comes to me , ` what if she's had a stroke , like her old Uncle Horatio , and is sitting there stone dead ! ' ''
The evening was cold and autumnal .
There was a fiery red spot out at sea , where the sun had set , and , above it , over a chill , clear , saffron sky , were reefs of purple-black clouds .
The river , below the Carewe homestead , was livid .
Beyond it , the sea was dark and brooding .
It was an evening to make most people shiver and forebode an early winter ; but Thyra loved it , as she loved all stern , harshly beautiful things .
She would not light a lamp because it would blot out the savage grandeur of sea and sky .
It was better to wait in the darkness until Chester came home .
He was late to-night .
She thought he had been detained over-time at the harbor , but she was not anxious .
He would come straight home to her as soon as his business was completed -- of that she felt sure .
Her thoughts went out along the bleak harbor road to meet him .
She could see him plainly , coming with his free stride through the sandy hollows and over the windy hills , in the harsh , cold light of that forbidding sunset , strong and handsome in his comely youth , with her own deeply cleft chin and his father's dark gray , straightforward eyes .
No other woman in Avonlea had a son like hers -- her only one .
In his brief absences she yearned after him with a maternal passion that had in it something of physical pain , so intense was it .
She thought of Cynthia White , knitting across the road , with contemptuous pity .
That woman had no son -- nothing but pale-faced girls .
Thyra had never wanted a daughter , but she pitied and despised all sonless women .
Chester's dog whined suddenly and piercingly on the doorstep outside .
He was tired of the cold stone and wanted his warm corner behind the stove .
Thyra smiled grimly when she heard him .
She had no intention of letting him in .
She said she had always disliked dogs , but the truth , although she would not glance at it , was that she hated the animal because Chester loved him .
She could not share his love with even a dumb brute .
She loved no living creature in the world but her son , and fiercely demanded a like concentrated affection from him .
Hence it pleased her to hear his dog whine .
It was now quite dark ; the stars had begun to shine out over the shorn harvest fields , and Chester had not come .
Across the lane Cynthia White had pulled down her blind , in despair of out-watching Thyra , and had lighted a lamp .
Lively shadows of little girl-shapes passed and repassed on the pale oblong of light .
They made Thyra conscious of her exceeding loneliness .
She had just decided that she would walk down the lane and wait for Chester on the bridge , when a thunderous knock came at the east kitchen door .
She recognized August Vorst's knock and lighted a lamp in no great haste , for she did not like him .
He was a gossip and Thyra hated gossip , in man or woman .
But August was privileged .
She carried the lamp in her hand , when she went to the door , and its upward-striking light gave her face a ghastly appearance .
She did not mean to ask August in , but he pushed past her cheerfully , not waiting to be invited .
He was a midget of a man , lame of foot and hunched of back , with a white , boyish face , despite his middle age and deep-set , malicious black eyes .
He pulled a crumpled newspaper from his pocket and handed it to Thyra .
He was the unofficial mail-carrier of Avonlea .
Most of the people gave him a trifle for bringing their letters and papers from the office .
He earned small sums in various other ways , and so contrived to keep the life in his stunted body .
There was always venom in August's gossip .
It was said that he made more mischief in Avonlea in a day than was made otherwise in a year , but people tolerated him by reason of his infirmity .
To be sure , it was the tolerance they gave to inferior creatures , and August felt this .
Perhaps it accounted for a good deal of his malignity .
He hated most those who were kindest to him , and , of these , Thyra Carewe above all .
He hated Chester , too , as he hated strong , shapely creatures .
His time had come at last to wound them both , and his exultation shone through his crooked body and pinched features like an illuminating lamp .
Thyra perceived it and vaguely felt something antagonistic in it .
She pointed to the rocking-chair , as she might have pointed out a mat to a dog .
August crawled into it and smiled .
He was going to make her writhe presently , this woman who looked down upon him as some venomous creeping thing she disdained to crush with her foot .
`` Did you see anything of Chester on the road ? ''
asked Thyra , giving August the very opening he desired .
`` He went to the harbor after tea to see Joe Raymond about the loan of his boat , but it's the time he should be back .
I can't think what keeps the boy . ''
`` Just what keeps most men -- leaving out creatures like me -- at some time or other in their lives .
A girl -- a pretty girl , Thyra .
It pleases me to look at her .
Even a hunchback can use his eyes , eh ?
Oh , she's a rare one ! ''
`` What is the man talking about ? ''
said Thyra wonderingly .
`` Damaris Garland , to be sure .
Chester's down at Tom Blair's now , talking to her -- and looking more than his tongue says , too , of that you may be sure .
Well , well , we were all young once , Thyra -- all young once , even crooked little August Vorst .
Eh , now ? ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
said Thyra .
She had sat down in a chair before him , with her hands folded in her lap .
Her face , always pale , had not changed ; but her lips were curiously white .
August Vorst saw this and it pleased him .
Also , her eyes were worth looking at , if you liked to hurt people -- and that was the only pleasure August took in life .
He would drink this delightful cup of revenge for her long years of disdainful kindness -- ah , he would drink it slowly to prolong its sweetness .
Sip by sip -- he rubbed his long , thin , white hands together -- sip by sip , tasting each mouthful .
`` Eh , now ?
You know well enough , Thyra . ''
`` I know nothing of what you would be at , August Vorst .
You speak of my son and Damaris -- was that the name ?
-- Damaris Garland as if they were something to each other .
I ask you what you mean by it ? ''
`` Tut , tut , Thyra , nothing very terrible .
There's no need to look like that about it .
Young men will be young men to the end of time , and there's no harm in Chester's liking to look at a lass , eh , now ?
Or in talking to her either ?
The little baggage , with the red lips of her !
She and Chester will make a pretty pair .
He's not so ill-looking for a man , Thyra . ''
`` I am not a very patient woman , August , '' said Thyra coldly .
`` I have asked you what you mean , and I want a straight answer .
Is Chester down at Tom Blair's while I have been sitting here , alone , waiting for him ? ''
August nodded .
He saw that it would not be wise to trifle longer with Thyra .
`` That he is .
I was there before I came here .
He and Damaris were sitting in a corner by themselves , and very well-satisfied they seemed to be with each other .
Tut , tut , Thyra , don't take the news so .
I thought you knew .
It's no secret that Chester has been going after Damaris ever since she came here .
But what then ?
You can't tie him to your apron strings forever , woman .
He'll be finding a mate for himself , as he should .
Seeing that he's straight and well-shaped , no doubt Damaris will look with favor on him .
Old Martha Blair declares the girl loves him better than her eyes . ''
Thyra made a sound like a strangled moan in the middle of August's speech .
She heard the rest of it immovably .
When it came to an end she stood and looked down upon him in a way that silenced him .
`` You've told the news you came to tell , and gloated over it , and now get you gone , '' she said slowly .
`` Now , Thyra , '' he began , but she interrupted him threateningly .
`` Get you gone , I say !
And you need not bring my mail here any longer .
I want no more of your misshapen body and lying tongue ! ''
August went , but at the door he turned for a parting stab .
`` My tongue is not a lying one , Mrs. Carewe .
I've told you the truth , as all Avonlea knows it .
Chester is mad about Damaris Garland .
It's no wonder I thought you knew what all the settlement can see .
But you 're such a jealous , odd body , I suppose the boy hid it from you for fear you 'd go into a tantrum .
As for me , I'll not forget that you've turned me from your door because I chanced to bring you news you 'd no fancy for . ''
Thyra did not answer him .
When the door closed behind him she locked it and blew out the light .
Then she threw herself face downward on the sofa and burst into wild tears .
Her very soul ached .
She wept as tempestuously and unreasoningly as youth weeps , although she was not young .
It seemed as if she was afraid to stop weeping lest she should go mad thinking .
But , after a time , tears failed her , and she began bitterly to go over , word by word , what August Vorst had said .
That her son should ever cast eyes of love on any girl was something Thyra had never thought about .
She would not believe it possible that he should love any one but herself , who loved him so much .
And now the possibility invaded her mind as subtly and coldly and remorselessly as a sea-fog stealing landward .
Chester had been born to her at an age when most women are letting their children slip from them into the world , with some natural tears and heartaches , but content to let them go , after enjoying their sweetest years .
Thyra's late-come motherhood was all the more intense and passionate because of its very lateness .
She had been very ill when her son was born , and had lain helpless for long weeks , during which other women had tended her baby for her .
She had never been able to forgive them for this .
Her husband had died before Chester was a year old .
She had laid their son in his dying arms and received him back again with a last benediction .
To Thyra that moment had something of a sacrament in it .
It was as if the child had been doubly given to her , with a right to him solely that nothing could take away or transcend .
Marrying !
She had never thought of it in connection with him .
He did not come of a marrying race .
His father had been sixty when he had married her , Thyra Lincoln , likewise well on in life .
Few of the Lincolns or Carewes had married young , many not at all .
And , to her , Chester was her baby still .
He belonged solely to her .
And now another woman had dared to look upon him with eyes of love .
Damaris Garland !
Thyra now remembered seeing her .
She was a new-comer in Avonlea , having come to live with her uncle and aunt after the death of her mother .
Thyra had met her on the bridge one day a month previously .
Yes , a man might think she was pretty -- a low-browed girl , with a wave of reddish-gold hair , and crimson lips blossoming out against the strange , milk-whiteness of her skin .
Her eyes , too -- Thyra recalled them -- hazel in tint , deep , and laughter-brimmed .
The girl had gone past her with a smile that brought out many dimples .
There was a certain insolent quality in her beauty , as if it flaunted itself somewhat too defiantly in the beholder's eye .
Thyra had turned and looked after the lithe , young creature , wondering who she might be .
And to-night , while she , his mother , waited for him in darkness and loneliness , he was down at Blair's , talking to this girl !
He loved her ; and it was past doubt that she loved him .
The thought was more bitter than death to Thyra .
That she should dare !
Her anger was all against the girl .
She had laid a snare to get Chester and he , like a fool , was entangled in it , thinking , man-fashion , only of her great eyes and red lips .
Thyra thought savagely of Damaris ' beauty .
`` She shall not have him , '' she said , with slow emphasis .
`` I will never give him up to any other woman , and , least of all , to her .
She would leave me no place in his heart at all -- me , his mother , who almost died to give him life .
He belongs to me !
Let her look for the son of some other woman -- some woman who has many sons .
She shall not have my only one ! ''
She got up , wrapped a shawl about her head , and went out into the darkly golden evening .
The clouds had cleared away , and the moon was shining .
The air was chill , with a bell-like clearness .
The alders by the river rustled eerily as she walked by them and out upon the bridge .
Here she paced up and down , peering with troubled eyes along the road beyond , or leaning over the rail , looking at the sparkling silver ribbon of moonlight that garlanded the waters .
Late travelers passed her , and wondered at her presence and mien .
Carl White saw her , and told his wife about her when he got home .
`` Striding to and fro over the bridge like mad !
At first I thought it was old , crazy May Blair .
What do you suppose she was doing down there at this hour of the night ? ''
`` Watching for Ches , no doubt , '' said Cynthia .
`` He ain't home yet .
Likely he's snug at Blairs ' .
I do wonder if Thyra suspicions that he goes after Damaris .
I've never dared to hint it to her .
She 'd be as liable to fly at me , tooth and claw , as not . ''
`` Well , she picks out a precious queer night for moon-gazing , '' said Carl , who was a jolly soul and took life as he found it .
`` It's bitter cold -- there'll be a hard frost .
It's a pity she can't get it grained into her that the boy is grown up and must have his fling like the other lads .
She'll go out of her mind yet , like her old grandmother Lincoln , if she doesn't ease up .
I've a notion to go down to the bridge and reason a bit with her . ''
`` Indeed , and you'll do no such thing ! ''
cried Cynthia .
`` Thyra Carewe is best left alone , if she is in a tantrum .
She's like no other woman in Avonlea -- or out of it .
I 'd as soon meddle with a tiger as her , if she's rampaging about Chester .
I don't envy Damaris Garland her life if she goes in there .
Thyra 'd sooner strangle her than not , I guess . ''
`` You women are all terrible hard on Thyra , '' said Carl , good-naturedly .
He had been in love with Thyra , himself , long ago , and he still liked her in a friendly fashion .
He always stood up for her when the Avonlea women ran her down .
He felt troubled about her all night , recalling her as she paced the bridge .
He wished he had gone back , in spite of Cynthia .
When Chester came home he met his mother on the bridge .
In the faint , yet penetrating , moonlight they looked curiously alike , but Chester had the milder face .
He was very handsome .
Even in the seething of her pain and jealousy Thyra yearned over his beauty .
She would have liked to put up her hands and caress his face , but her voice was very hard when she asked him where he had been so late .
`` I called in at Tom Blair's on my way home from the harbor , '' he answered , trying to walk on .
But she held him back by his arm .
`` Did you go there to see Damaris ? ''
she demanded fiercely .
Chester was uncomfortable .
Much as he loved his mother , he felt , and always had felt , an awe of her and an impatient dislike of her dramatic ways of speaking and acting .
He reflected , resentfully , that no other young man in Avonlea , who had been paying a friendly call , would be met by his mother at midnight and held up in such tragic fashion to account for himself .
He tried vainly to loosen her hold upon his arm , but he understood quite well that he must give her an answer .
Being strictly straight-forward by nature and upbringing , he told the truth , albeit with more anger in his tone than he had ever shown to his mother before .
`` Yes , '' he said shortly .
Thyra released his arm , and struck her hands together with a sharp cry .
There was a savage note in it .
She could have slain Damaris Garland at that moment .
`` Don't go on so , mother , '' said Chester , impatiently .
`` Come in out of the cold .
It isn't fit for you to be here .
Who has been tampering with you ?
What if I did go to see Damaris ? ''
`` Oh -- oh -- oh ! ''
cried Thyra .
`` I was waiting for you -- alone -- and you were thinking only of her !
Chester , answer me -- do you love her ? ''
The blood rolled rapidly over the boy's face .
He muttered something and tried to pass on , but she caught him again .
He forced himself to speak gently .
`` What if I do , mother ? ''
It wouldn't be such a dreadful thing , would it ? ''
`` And me ?
And me ? ''
cried Thyra .
`` What am I to you , then ? ''
`` You are my mother .
I wouldn't love you any the less because I cared for another , too . ''
`` I won't have you love another , '' she cried .
`` I want all your love -- all !
What's that baby-face to you , compared to your mother ?
I have the best right to you .
I won't give you up . ''
Chester realized that there was no arguing with such a mood .
He walked on , resolved to set the matter aside until she might be more reasonable .
But Thyra would not have it so .
She followed on after him , under the alders that crowded over the lane .
`` Promise me that you'll not go there again , '' she entreated .
`` Promise me that you'll give her up . ''
`` I can't promise such a thing , '' he cried angrily .
His anger hurt her worse than a blow , but she did not flinch .
`` You 're not engaged to her ? ''
she cried out .
`` Now , mother , be quiet .
All the settlement will hear you .
Why do you object to Damaris ?
You don't know how sweet she is .
When you know her -- '' `` I will never know her ! ''
cried Thyra furiously .
`` And she shall not have you !
She shall not , Chester ! ''
He made no answer .
She suddenly broke into tears and loud sobs .
Touched with remorse , he stopped and put his arms about her .
`` Mother , mother , don't !
I can't bear to see you cry so .
But , indeed , you are unreasonable .
Didn't you ever think the time would come when I would want to marry , like other men ? ''
`` No , no !
And I will not have it -- I can not bear it , Chester .
You must promise not to go to see her again .
I won't go into the house this night until you do .
I'll stay out here in the bitter cold until you promise to put her out of your thoughts . ''
`` That's beyond my power , mother .
Oh , mother , you 're making it hard for me .
Come in , come in !
You 're shivering with cold now .
You'll be sick . ''
`` Not a step will I stir till you promise .
Say you won't go to see that girl any more , and there's nothing I won't do for you .
But if you put her before me , I'll not go in -- I never will go in . ''
With most women this would have been an empty threat ; but it was not so with Thyra , and Chester knew it .
He knew she would keep her word .
And he feared more than that .
In this frenzy of hers what might she not do ?
She came of a strange breed , as had been said disapprovingly when Luke Carewe married her .
There was a strain of insanity in the Lincolns .
A Lincoln woman had drowned herself once .
Chester thought of the river , and grew sick with fright .
For a moment even his passion for Damaris weakened before the older tie .
`` Mother , calm yourself .
Oh , surely there's no need of all this !
Let us wait until to-morrow , and talk it over then .
I'll hear all you have to say .
Come in , dear . ''
Thyra loosened her arms from about him , and stepped back into a moon-lit space .
Looking at him tragically , she extended her arms and spoke slowly and solemnly .
`` Chester , choose between us .
If you choose her , I shall go from you to-night , and you will never see me again ! ''
`` Mother ! ''
`` Choose ! ''
she reiterated , fiercely .
He felt her long ascendancy .
Its influence was not to be shaken off in a moment .
In all his life he had never disobeyed her .
Besides , with it all , he loved her more deeply and understandingly than most sons love their mothers .
He realized that , since she would have it so , his choice was already made -- or , rather that he had no choice .
`` Have your way , '' he said sullenly .
She ran to him and caught him to her heart .
In the reaction of her feeling she was half laughing , half crying .
All was well again -- all would be well ; she never doubted this , for she knew he would keep his ungracious promise sacredly .
`` Oh , my son , my son , '' she murmured , `` you 'd have sent me to my death if you had chosen otherwise .
But now you are mine again ! ''
She did not heed that he was sullen -- that he resented her unjustice with all her own intensity .
She did not heed his silence as they went into the house together .
Strangely enough , she slept well and soundly that night .
Not until many days had passed did she understand that , though Chester might keep his promise in the letter , it was beyond his power to keep it in the spirit .
She had taken him from Damaris Garland ; but she had not won him back to herself .
He could never be wholly her son again .
There was a barrier between them which not all her passionate love could break down .
Chester was gravely kind to her , for it was not in his nature to remain sullen long , or visit his own unhappiness upon another's head ; besides , he understood her exacting affection , even in its injustice , and it has been well-said that to understand is to forgive .
But he avoided her , and she knew it .
The flame of her anger burned bitterly towards Damaris .
`` He thinks of her all the time , '' she moaned to herself .
`` He'll come to hate me yet , I fear , because it's I who made him give her up .
But I 'd rather even that than share him with another woman .
Oh , my son , my son ! ''
She knew that Damaris was suffering , too .
The girl's wan face told that when she met her .
But this pleased Thyra .
It eased the ache in her bitter heart to know that pain was gnawing at Damaris ' also .
Chester was absent from home very often now .
He spent much of his spare time at the harbor , consorting with Joe Raymond and others of that ilk , who were but sorry associates for him , Avonlea people thought .
In late November he and Joe started for a trip down the coast in the latter's boat .
Thyra protested against it , but Chester laughed at her alarm .
Thyra saw him go with a heart sick from fear .
She hated the sea , and was afraid of it at any time ; but , most of all , in this treacherous month , with its sudden , wild gales .
Chester had been fond of the sea from boyhood .
She had always tried to stifle this fondness and break off his associations with the harbor fishermen , who liked to lure the high-spirited boy out with them on fishing expeditions .
But her power over him was gone now .
After Chester's departure she was restless and miserable , wandering from window to window to scan the dour , unsmiling sky .
Carl White , dropping in to pay a call , was alarmed when he heard that Chester had gone with Joe , and had not tact enough to conceal his alarm from Thyra . '' '
T isn't safe this time of year , '' he said .
`` Folks expect no better from that reckless , harum-scarum Joe Raymond .
He'll drown himself some day , there's nothing surer .
This mad freak of starting off down the shore in November is just of a piece with his usual performances .
But you shouldn't have let Chester go , Thyra . ''
`` I couldn't prevent him .
Say what I could , he would go .
He laughed when I spoke of danger .
Oh , he's changed from what he was !
I know who has wrought the change , and I hate her for it ! ''
Carl shrugged his fat shoulders .
He knew quite well that Thyra was at the bottom of the sudden coldness between Chester Carewe and Damaris Garland , about which Avonlea gossip was busying itself .
He pitied Thyra , too .
She had aged rapidly the past month .
`` You 're too hard on Chester , Thyra .
He's out of leading-strings now , or should be .
You must just let me take an old friend's privilege , and tell you that you 're taking the wrong way with him .
You 're too jealous and exacting , Thyra . ''
`` You don't know anything about it .
You have never had a son , '' said Thyra , cruelly enough , for she knew that Carl's sonlessness was a rankling thorn in his mind .
`` You don't know what it is to pour out your love on one human being , and have it flung back in your face ! ''
Carl could not cope with Thyra's moods .
He had never understood her , even in his youth .
Now he went home , still shrugging his shoulders , and thinking that it was a good thing Thyra had not looked on him with favor in the old days .
Cynthia was much easier to get along with .
More than Thyra looked anxiously to sea and sky that night in Avonlea .
Damaris Garland listened to the smothered roar of the Atlantic in the murky northeast with a prescience of coming disaster .
Friendly longshoremen shook their heads and said that Ches and Joe would better have kept to good , dry land .
`` It's sorry work joking with a November gale , '' said Abel Blair .
He was an old man and , in his life , had seen some sad things along the shore .
Thyra could not sleep that night .
When the gale came shrieking up the river , and struck the house , she got out of bed and dressed herself .
The wind screamed like a ravening beast at her window .
All night she wandered to and fro in the house , going from room to room , now wringing her hands with loud outcries , now praying below her breath with white lips , now listening in dumb misery to the fury of the storm .
The wind raged all the next day ; but spent itself in the following night , and the second morning was calm and fair .
The eastern sky was a great arc of crystal , smitten through with auroral crimsonings .
Thyra , looking from her kitchen window , saw a group of men on the bridge .
They were talking to Carl White , with looks and gestures directed towards the Carewe house .
She went out and down to them .
None of these who saw her white , rigid face that day ever forgot the sight .
`` You have news for me , '' she said .
They looked at each other , each man mutely imploring his neighbor to speak .
`` You need not fear to tell me , '' said Thyra calmly .
`` I know what you have come to say .
My son is drowned . ''
`` We don't know THAT , Mrs. Carewe , '' said Abel Blair quickly .
`` We haven't got the worst to tell you -- there's hope yet .
But Joe Raymond's boat was found last night , stranded bottom up , on the Blue Point sand shore , forty miles down the coast . ''
`` Don't look like that , Thyra , '' said Carl White pityingly .
`` They may have escaped -- they may have been picked up . ''
Thyra looked at him with dull eyes .
`` You know they have not .
Not one of you has any hope .
I have no son .
The sea has taken him from me -- my bonny baby ! ''
She turned and went back to her desolate home .
None dared to follow her .
Carl White went home and sent his wife over to her .
Cynthia found Thyra sitting in her accustomed chair .
Her hands lay , palms upward , on her lap .
Her eyes were dry and burning .
She met Cynthia's compassionate look with a fearful smile .
`` Long ago , Cynthia White , '' she said slowly , `` you were vexed with me one day , and you told me that God would punish me yet , because I made an idol of my son , and set it up in His place .
Do you remember ?
Your word was a true one .
God saw that I loved Chester too much , and He meant to take him from me .
I thwarted one way when I made him give up Damaris .
But one can't fight against the Almighty .
It was decreed that I must lose him -- if not in one way , then in another .
He has been taken from me utterly .
I shall not even have his grave to tend , Cynthia . ''
`` As near to a mad woman as anything you ever saw , with her awful eyes , '' Cynthia told Carl , afterwards .
But she did not say so there .
Although she was a shallow , commonplace soul , she had her share of womanly sympathy , and her own life had not been free from suffering .
It taught her the right thing to do now .
She sat down by the stricken creature and put her arms about her , while she gathered the cold hands in her own warm clasp .
The tears filled her big , blue eyes and her voice trembled as she said : `` Thyra , I 'm sorry for you .
I -- I -- lost a child once -- my little first-born .
And Chester was a dear , good lad . ''
For a moment Thyra strained her small , tense body away from Cynthia's embrace .
Then she shuddered and cried out .
The tears came , and she wept her agony out on the other woman's breast .
As the ill news spread , other Avonlea women kept dropping in all through the day to condole with Thyra .
Many of them came in real sympathy , but some out of mere curiosity to see how she took it .
Thyra knew this , but she did not resent it , as she would once have done .
She listened very quietly to all the halting efforts at consolation , and the little platitudes with which they strove to cover the nakedness of bereavement .
When darkness came Cynthia said she must go home , but would send one of her girls over for the night .
`` You won't feel like staying alone , '' she said .
Thyra looked up steadily .
`` No .
But I want you to send for Damaris Garland . ''
`` Damaris Garland ! ''
Cynthia repeated the name as if disbelieving her own ears .
There was never any knowing what whim Thyra might take , but Cynthia had not expected this .
`` Yes .
Tell her I want her -- tell her she must come .
She must hate me bitterly ; but I am punished enough to satisfy even her hate .
Tell her to come to me for Chester's sake . ''
Cynthia did as she was bid , she sent her daughter , Jeanette , for Damaris .
Then she waited .
No matter what duties were calling for her at home she must see the interview between Thyra and Damaris .
Her curiosity would be the last thing to fail Cynthia White .
She had done very well all day ; but it would be asking too much of her to expect that she would consider the meeting of these two women sacred from her eyes .
She half believed that Damaris would refuse to come .
But Damaris came .
Jeanette brought her in amid the fiery glow of a November sunset .
Thyra stood up , and for a moment they looked at each other .
The insolence of Damaris ' beauty was gone .
Her eyes were dull and heavy with weeping , her lips were pale , and her face had lost its laughter and dimples .
Only her hair , escaping from the shawl she had cast around it , gushed forth in warm splendor in the sunset light , and framed her wan face like the aureole of a Madonna .
Thyra looked upon her with a shock of remorse .
This was not the radiant creature she had met on the bridge that summer afternoon .
This -- this -- was HER work .
She held out her arms .
`` Oh , Damaris , forgive me .
We both loved him -- that must be a bond between us for life . ''
Damaris came forward and threw her arms about the older woman , lifting her face .
As their lips met even Cynthia White realized that she had no business there .
She vented the irritation of her embarrassment on the innocent Jeanette .
`` Come away , '' she whispered crossly .
`` Can't you see we 're not wanted here ? ''
She drew Jeanette out , leaving Thyra rocking Damaris in her arms , and crooning over her like a mother over her child .
When December had grown old Damaris was still with Thyra .
It was understood that she was to remain there for the winter , at least .
Thyra could not bear her to be out of her sight .
They talked constantly about Chester ; Thyra confessed all her anger and hatred .
Damaris had forgiven her ; but Thyra could never forgive herself .
She was greatly changed , and had grown very gentle and tender .
She even sent for August Vorst and begged him to pardon her for the way she had spoken to him .
Winter came late that year , and the season was a very open one .
There was no snow on the ground and , a month after Joe Raymond's boat had been cast up on the Blue Point sand shore , Thyra , wandering about in her garden , found some pansies blooming under their tangled leaves .
She was picking them for Damaris when she heard a buggy rumble over the bridge and drive up the White lane , hidden from her sight by the alders and firs .
A few minutes later Carl and Cynthia came hastily across their yard under the huge balm-of-gileads .
Carl's face was flushed , and his big body quivered with excitement .
Cynthia ran behind him , with tears rolling down her face .
Thyra felt herself growing sick with fear .
Had anything happened to Damaris ?
A glimpse of the girl , sewing by an upper window of the house , reassured her .
`` Oh , Thyra , Thyra ! ''
gasped Cynthia .
`` Can you stand some good news , Thyra ? ''
asked Carl , in a trembling voice .
`` Very , very good news ! ''
Thyra looked wildly from one to the other .
`` There's but one thing you would dare to call good news to me , '' she cried .
`` Is it about -- about -- '' `` Chester !
Yes , it's about Chester !
Thyra , he is alive -- he's safe -- he and Joe , both of them , thank God !
Cynthia , catch her ! ''
`` No , I am not going to faint , '' said Thyra , steadying herself by Cynthia's shoulder .
`` My son alive !
How did you hear ?
How did it happen ?
Where has he been ? ''
`` I heard it down at the harbor , Thyra .
Mike McCready's vessel , the Nora Lee , was just in from the Magdalens .
Ches and Joe got capsized the night of the storm , but they hung on to their boat somehow , and at daybreak they were picked up by the Nora Lee , bound for Quebec .
But she was damaged by the storm and blown clear out of her course .
Had to put into the Magdalens for repairs , and has been there ever since .
The cable to the islands was out of order , and no vessels call there this time of year for mails .
If it hadn't been an extra open season the Nora Lee wouldn't have got away , but would have had to stay there till spring .
You never saw such rejoicing as there was this morning at the harbor , when the Nora Lee came in , flying flags at the mast head . ''
`` And Chester -- where is he ? ''
demanded Thyra .
Carl and Cynthia looked at each other .
`` Well , Thyra , '' said the latter , `` the fact is , he's over there in our yard this blessed minute .
Carl brought him home from the harbor , but I wouldn't let him come over until we had prepared you for it .
He's waiting for you there . ''
Thyra made a quick step in the direction of the gate .
Then she turned , with a little of the glow dying out of her face .
`` No , there's one has a better right to go to him first .
I can atone to him -- thank God , I can atone to him ! ''
She went into the house and called Damaris .
As the girl came down the stairs Thyra held out her hands with a wonderful light of joy and renunciation on her face .
`` Damaris , '' she said , `` Chester has come back to us -- the sea has given him back to us .
He is over at Carl White's house .
Go to him , my daughter , and bring him to me ! ''
