`` It simply isn't to be thought of , Aunty Nan , '' said Mrs. William Morrison decisively .
Mrs. William Morrison was one of those people who always speak decisively .
If they merely announce that they are going to peel the potatoes for dinner their hearers realize that there is no possible escape for the potatoes .
Moreover , these people are always given their full title by everybody .
William Morrison was called Billy oftener than not ; but , if you had asked for Mrs. Billy Morrison , nobody in Avonlea would have known what you meant at first guess .
`` You must see that for yourself , Aunty , '' went on Mrs. William , hulling strawberries nimbly with her large , firm , white fingers as she talked .
Mrs. William always improved every shining moment .
`` It is ten miles to Kensington , and just think how late you would be getting back .
You are not able for such a drive .
You wouldn't get over it for a month .
You know you are anything but strong this summer . ''
Aunty Nan sighed , and patted the tiny , furry , gray morsel of a kitten in her lap with trembling fingers .
She knew , better than anyone else could know it , that she was not strong that summer .
In her secret soul , Aunty Nan , sweet and frail and timid under the burden of her seventy years , felt with mysterious unmistakable prescience that it was to be her last summer at the Gull Point Farm .
But that was only the more reason why she should go to hear little Joscelyn sing ; she would never have another chance .
And oh , to hear little Joscelyn sing just once -- Joscelyn , whose voice was delighting thousands out in the big world , just as in the years gone by it had delighted Aunty Nan and the dwellers at the Gull Point Farm for a whole golden summer with carols at dawn and dusk about the old place !
`` Oh , I know I 'm not very strong , Maria . ''
said Aunty Nan pleadingly , `` but I am strong enough for that .
Indeed I am .
I could stay at Kensington over night with George's folks , you know , and so it wouldn't tire me much .
I do so want to hear Joscelyn sing .
Oh , how I love little Joscelyn . ''
`` It passes my understanding , the way you hanker after that child , '' cried Mrs. William impatiently .
`` Why , she was a perfect stranger to you when she came here , and she was here only one summer ! ''
`` But oh , such a summer ! ''
said Aunty Nan softly .
`` We all loved little Joscelyn .
She just seemed like one of our own .
She was one of God's children , carrying love with them everywhere .
In some ways that little Anne Shirley the Cuthberts have got up there at Green Gables reminds me of her , though in other ways they 're not a bit alike .
Joscelyn was a beauty . ''
`` Well , that Shirley snippet certainly isn't that , '' said Mrs. William sarcastically .
`` And if Joscelyn's tongue was one third as long as Anne Shirley's the wonder to me is that she didn't talk you all to death out of hand . ''
`` Little Joscelyn wasn't much of a talker , '' said Aunty Nan dreamily .
`` She was kind of a quiet child .
But you remember what she did say .
And I've never forgotten little Joscelyn . ''
Mrs. William shrugged her plump , shapely shoulders .
`` Well , it was fifteen years ago , Aunty Nan , and Joscelyn can't be very ` little ' now .
She is a famous woman , and she has forgotten all about you , you can be sure of that . ''
`` Joscelyn wasn't the kind that forgets , '' said Aunty Nan loyally .
`` And , anyway , the point is , I haven't forgotten HER .
Oh , Maria , I've longed for years and years just to hear her sing once more .
It seems as if I MUST hear my little Joscelyn sing once again before I die .
I've never had the chance before and I never will have it again .
Do please ask William to take me to Kensington . ''
`` Dear me , Aunty Nan , this is really childish , '' said Mrs. William , whisking her bowlful of berries into the pantry .
`` You must let other folks be the judge of what is best for you now .
You aren't strong enough to drive to Kensington , and , even if you were , you know well enough that William couldn't go to Kensington to-morrow night .
He has got to attend that political meeting at Newbridge .
They can't do without him . ''
`` Jordan could take me to Kensington , '' pleaded Aunty Nan , with very unusual persistence .
`` Nonsense !
You couldn't go to Kensington with the hired man .
Now , Aunty Nan , do be reasonable .
Aren't William and I kind to you ?
Don't we do everything for your comfort ? ''
`` Yes , oh , yes , '' admitted Aunty Nan deprecatingly .
`` Well , then , you ought to be guided by our opinion .
And you must just give up thinking about the Kensington concert , Aunty , and not worry yourself and me about it any more .
I am going down to the shore field now to call William to tea .
Just keep an eye on the baby in chance he wakes up , and see that the teapot doesn't boil over . ''
Mrs. William whisked out of the kitchen , pretending not to see the tears that were falling over Aunty Nan's withered pink cheeks .
Aunty Nan was really getting very childish , Mrs. William reflected , as she marched down to the shore field .
Why , she cried now about every little thing !
And such a notion -- to want to go to the Old Timers ' concert at Kensington and be so set on it !
Really , it was hard to put up with her whims .
Mrs. William sighed virtuously .
As for Aunty Nan , she sat alone in the kitchen , and cried bitterly , as only lonely old age can cry .
It seemed to her that she could not bear it , that she MUST go to Kensington .
But she knew that it was not to be , since Mrs. William had decided otherwise .
Mrs. William's word was law at Gull Point Farm .
`` What's the matter with my old Aunty Nan ? ''
cried a hearty young voice from the doorway .
Jordan Sloane stood there , his round , freckled face looking as anxious and sympathetic as it was possible for such a very round , very freckled face to look .
Jordan was the Morrisons ' hired boy that summer , and he worshipped Aunty Nan .
`` Oh , Jordan , '' sobbed Aunty Nan , who was not above telling her troubles to the hired help , although Mrs. William thought she ought to be , `` I can't go to Kensington to-morrow night to hear little Joscelyn sing at the Old Timers ' concert .
Maria says I can't . ''
`` That's too bad , '' said Jordan .
`` Old cat , '' he muttered after the retreating and serenely unconscious Mrs. William .
Then he shambled in and sat down on the sofa beside Aunty Nan .
`` There , there , don't cry , '' he said , patting her thin little shoulder with his big , sunburned paw .
`` You'll make yourself sick if you go on crying , and we can't get along without you at Gull Point Farm . ''
Aunty Nan smiled wanly .
`` I 'm afraid you'll soon have to get on without me , Jordan .
I 'm not going to be here very long now .
No , I 'm not , Jordan , I know it .
Something tells me so very plainly .
But I would be willing to go -- glad to go , for I 'm very tired , Jordan -- if I could only have heard little Joscelyn sing once more . ''
`` Why are you so set on hearing her ? ''
asked Jordan .
`` She ain't no kin to you , is she ? ''
`` No , but dearer to me -- dearer to me than many of my own .
Maria thinks that is silly , but you wouldn't if you 'd known her , Jordan .
Even Maria herself wouldn't , if she had known her .
It is fifteen years since she came here one summer to board .
She was a child of thirteen then , and hadn't any relations except an old uncle who sent her to school in winter and boarded her out in summer , and didn't care a rap about her .
The child was just starving for love , Jordan , and she got it here .
William and his brothers were just children then , and they hadn't any sister .
We all just worshipped her .
She was so sweet , Jordan .
And pretty , oh my !
like a little girl in a picture , with great long curls , all black and purply and fine as spun silk , and big dark eyes , and such pink cheeks -- real wild rose cheeks .
And sing !
My land !
But couldn't she sing !
Always singing , every hour of the day that voice was ringing round the old place .
I used to hold my breath to hear it .
She always said that she meant to be a famous singer some day , and I never doubted it a mite .
It was born in her .
Sunday evening she used to sing hymns for us .
Oh , Jordan , it makes my old heart young again to remember it .
A sweet child she was , my little Joscelyn !
She used to write me for three or four years after she went away , but I haven't heard a word from her for long and long .
I daresay she has forgotten me , as Maria says .
` Twouldn't be any wonder .
But I haven't forgotten her , and oh , I want to see and hear her terrible much .
She is to sing at the Old Timers ' concert to-morrow night at Kensington .
The folks who are getting the concert up are friends of hers , or , of course , she 'd never have come to a little country village .
Only sixteen miles away -- and I can't go . ''
Jordan couldn't think of anything to say .
He reflected savagely that if he had a horse of his own he would take Aunty Nan to Kensington , Mrs. William or no Mrs. William .
Though , to be sure , it WAS a long drive for her ; and she was looking very frail this summer .
`` Ain't going to last long , '' muttered Jordan , making his escape by the porch door as Mrs. William puffed in by the other .
`` The sweetest old creetur that ever was created'll go when she goes .
Yah , ye old madam , I 'd like to give you a piece of my mind , that I would ! ''
This last was for Mrs. William , but was delivered in a prudent undertone .
Jordan detested Mrs. William , but she was a power to be reckoned with , all the same .
Meek , easy-going Billy Morrison did just what his wife told him to .
So Aunty Nan did not get to Kensington to hear little Joscelyn sing .
She said nothing more about it but after that night she seemed to fail very rapidly .
Mrs. William said it was the hot weather , and that Aunty Nan gave way too easily .
But Aunty Nan could not help giving way now ; she was very , very tired .
Even her knitting wearied her .
She would sit for hours in her rocking chair with the gray kitten in her lap , looking out of the window with dreamy , unseeing eyes .
She talked to herself a good deal , generally about little Joscelyn .
Mrs. William told Avonlea folk that Aunty Nan had got terribly childish and always accompanied the remark with a sigh that intimated how much she , Mrs. William , had to contend with .
Justice must be done to Mrs. William , however .
She was not unkind to Aunty Nan ; on the contrary , she was very kind to her in the letter .
Her comfort was scrupulously attended to , and Mrs. William had the grace to utter none of her complaints in the old woman's hearing .
If Aunty Nan felt the absence of the spirit she never murmured at it .
One day , when the Avonlea slopes were golden-hued with the ripened harvest , Aunty Nan did not get up .
She complained of nothing but great weariness .
Mrs. William remarked to her husband that if SHE lay in bed every day she felt tired , there wouldn't be much done at Gull Point Farm .
But she prepared an excellent breakfast and carried it patiently up to Aunty Nan , who ate little of it .
After dinner Jordan crept up by way of the back stairs to see her .
Aunty Nan was lying with her eyes fixed on the pale pink climbing roses that nodded about the window .
When she saw Jordan she smiled .
`` Them roses put me so much in mind of little Joscelyn , '' she said softly .
`` She loved them so .
If I could only see her !
Oh , Jordan , if I could only see her !
Maria says it's terrible childish to be always harping on that string , and mebbe it is .
But -- oh , Jordan , there's such a hunger in my heart for her , such a hunger ! ''
Jordan felt a queer sensation in his throat , and twisted his ragged straw hat about in his big hands .
Just then a vague idea which had hovered in his brain all day crystallized into decision .
But all he said was : `` I hope you'll feel better soon , Aunty Nan . ''
`` Oh , yes , Jordan dear , I'll be better soon , '' said Aunty Nan with her own sweet smile . ''
` The inhabitant shall not say I am sick , ' you know .
But if I could only see little Joscelyn first ! ''
Jordan went out and hurried down-stairs .
Billy Morrison was in the stable , when Jordan stuck his head over the half-door .
`` Say , can I have the rest of the day off , sir ?
I want to go to Kensington . ''
`` Well , I don't mind , '' said Billy Morrison amiably .
`` May's well get you jaunting done ` fore harvest comes on .
And here , Jord ; take this quarter and get some oranges for Aunty Nan .
Needn't mention it to headquarters . ''
Billy Morrison's face was solemn , but Jordan winked as he pocketed the money .
`` If I've any luck , I'll bring her something that'll do her more good than the oranges , '' he muttered , as he hurried off to the pasture .
Jordan had a horse of his own now , a rather bony nag , answering to the name of Dan .
Billy Morrison had agreed to pasture the animal if Jordan used him in the farm work , an arrangement scoffed at by Mrs. William in no measured terms .
Jordan hitched Dan into the second best buggy , dressed himself in his Sunday clothes , and drove off .
On the road he re-read a paragraph he had clipped from the Charlottetown Daily Enterprise of the previous day .
`` Joscelyn Burnett , the famous contralto , is spending a few days in Kensington on her return from her Maritime concert tour .
She is the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Bromley , of The Beeches . ''
`` Now if I can get there in time , '' said Jordan emphatically .
Jordan got to Kensington , put Dan up in a livery stable , and inquired the way to The Beeches .
He felt rather nervous when he found it , it was such a stately , imposing place , set back from the street in an emerald green seclusion of beautiful grounds .
`` Fancy me stalking up to that front door and asking for Miss Joscelyn Burnett , '' grinned Jordan sheepishly .
`` Mebbe they'll tell me to go around to the back and inquire for the cook .
But you 're going just the same , Jordan Sloane , and no skulking .
March right up now .
Think of Aunty Nan and don't let style down you . ''
A pert-looking maid answered Jordan's ring , and stared at him when he asked for Miss Burnett .
`` I don't think you can see her , '' she said shortly , scanning his country cut of hair and clothes rather superciliously .
`` What is your business with her ? ''
The maid's scorn roused Jordan's `` dander , '' as he would have expressed it .
`` I'll tell her that when I see her , '' he retorted coolly .
`` Just you tell her that I've a message for her from Aunty Nan Morrison of Gull Point Farm , Avonlea .
If she hain't forgot , that'll fetch her .
You might as well hurry up , if you please , I've not overly too much time . ''
The pert maid decided to be civil at least , and invited Jordan to enter .
But she left him standing in the hall while she went in search of Miss Burnett .
Jordan gazed about him in amazement .
He had never been in any place like this before .
The hall was wonderful enough , and through the open doors on either hand stretched vistas of lovely rooms that , to Jordan's eyes , looked like those of a palace .
`` Gee whiz !
How do they ever move around without knocking things over ? ''
Then Joscelyn Burnett came , and Jordan forgot everything else .
This tall , beautiful woman , in her silken draperies , with a face like nothing Jordan had ever seen , or even dreamed about , -- could this be Aunty Nan's little Joscelyn ?
Jordan's round , freckled countenance grew crimson .
He felt horribly tonguetied and embarrassed .
What could he say to her ?
How could he say it ?
Joscelyn Burnett looked at him with her large , dark eyes , -- the eyes of a woman who had suffered much , and learned much , and won through struggle to victory .
`` You have come from Aunty Nan ? ''
she said .
`` Oh , I am so glad to hear from her .
Is she well ?
Come in here and tell me all about her . ''
She turned toward one of those fairy-like rooms , but Jordan interrupted her desperately .
`` Oh , not in there , ma'am .
I 'd never get it out .
Just let me blunder through it out here someways .
Yes 'm , Aunty Nan , she ain't very well .
She's -- she's dying , I guess .
And she's longing for you night and day .
Seems as if she couldn't die in peace without seeing you .
She wanted to get to Kensington to hear you sing , but that old cat of a Mrs. William -- begging you pardon , ma'am -- wouldn't let her come .
She's always talking of you .
If you can come out to Gull Point Farm and see her , I'll be most awful obliged to you , ma'am . ''
Joscelyn Burnett looked troubled .
She had not forgotten Gull Point Farm , nor Aunty Nan ; but for years the memory had been dim , crowded into the background of consciousness by the more exciting events of her busy life .
Now it came back with a rush .
She recalled it all tenderly -- the peace and beauty and love of that olden summer , and sweet Aunty Nan , so very wise in the lore of all things simple and good and true .
For the moment Joscelyn Burnett was a lonely , hungry-hearted little girl again , seeking for love and finding it not , until Aunty Nan had taken her into her great mother-heart and taught her its meaning .
`` Oh , I don't know , '' she said perplexedly .
`` If you had come sooner -- I leave on the 11:30 train tonight .
I MUST leave by then or I shall not reach Montreal in time to fill a very important engagement .
And yet I must see Aunty Nan , too .
I have been careless and neglectful .
I might have gone to see her before .
How can we manage it ? ''
`` I'll bring you back to Kensington in time to catch that train , '' said Jordan eagerly .
`` There's nothing I wouldn't do for Aunty Nan -- me and Dan .
Yes , sir , you'll get back in time .
Just think of Aunty Nan's face when she sees you ! ''
`` I will come , '' said the great singer , gently .
It was sunset when they reached Gull Point Farm .
An arc of warm gold was over the spruces behind the house .
Mrs. William was out in the barn-yard , milking , and the house was deserted , save for the sleeping baby in the kitchen and the little old woman with the watchful eyes in the up-stairs room .
`` This way , ma'am , '' said Jordan , inwardly congratulating himself that the coast was clear .
`` I'll take you right up to her room . ''
Up-stairs , Joscelyn tapped at the half-open door and went in .
Before it closed behind her , Jordan heard Aunty Nan say , `` Joscelyn !
Little Joscelyn ! ''
in a tone that made him choke again .
He stumbled thankfully down-stairs , to be pounced upon by Mrs. William in the kitchen .
`` Jordan Sloane , who was that stylish woman you drove into the yard with ?
And what have you done with her ? ''
`` That was Miss Joscelyn Burnett , '' said Jordan , expanding himself .
This was his hour of triumph over Mrs. William .
`` I went to Kensington and brung her out to see Aunty Nan .
She's up with her now . ''
`` Dear me , '' said Mrs. William helplessly .
`` And me in my milking rig !
Jordan , for pity's sake , hold the baby while I go and put on my black silk .
You might have given a body some warning .
I declare I don't know which is the greatest idiot , you or Aunty Nan ! ''
As Mrs. William flounced out of the kitchen , Jordan took his satisfaction in a quiet laugh .
Up-stairs in the little room was a great glory of sunset and gladness of human hearts .
Joscelyn was kneeling by the bed , with her arms about Aunty Nan ; and Aunty Nan , with her face all irradiated , was stroking Joscelyn's dark hair fondly .
`` O , little Joscelyn , '' she murmured , `` it seems too good to be true .
It seems like a beautiful dream .
I knew you the minute you opened the door , my dearie .
You haven't changed a bit .
And you 're a famous singer now , little Joscelyn !
I always knew you would be .
Oh , I want you to sing a piece for me -- just one , won't you , dearie ?
Sing that piece people like to hear you sing best .
I forget the name , but I've read about it in the papers .
Sing it for me , little Joscelyn . ''
And Joscelyn , standing by Aunty Nan's bed , in the sunset light , sang the song she had sung to many a brilliant audience on many a noted concert-platform -- sang it as even she had never sung before , while Aunty Nan lay and listened beatifically , and downstairs even Mrs. William held her breath , entranced by the exquisite melody that floated through the old farmhouse .
`` O , little Joscelyn ! ''
breathed Aunty Nan in rapture , when the song ended .
Joscelyn knelt by her again and they had a long talk of old days .
One by one they recalled the memories of that vanished summer .
The past gave up its tears and its laughter .
Heart and fancy alike went roaming through the ways of the long ago .
Aunty Nan was perfectly happy .
And then Joscelyn told her all the story of her struggles and triumphs since they had parted .
When the moonlight began to creep in through the low window , Aunty Nan put out her hand and touched Joscelyn's bowed head .
`` Little Joscelyn , '' she whispered , `` if it ain't asking too much , I want you to sing just one other piece .
Do you remember when you were here how we sung hymns in the parlour every Sunday night , and my favourite always was ` The Sands of Time are Sinking ? '
I ain't never forgot how you used to sing that , and I want to hear it just once again , dearie .
Sing it for me , little Joscelyn . ''
Joscelyn rose and went to the window .
Lifting back the curtain , she stood in the splendour of the moonlight , and sang the grand old hymn .
At first Aunty Nan beat time to it feebly on the counterpane ; but when Joscelyn came to the verse , `` With mercy and with judgment , '' she folded her hands over her breast and smiled .
When the hymn ended , Joscelyn came over to the bed .
`` I am afraid I must say good-bye now , Aunty Nan , '' she said .
Then she saw that Aunty Nan had fallen asleep .
She would not waken her , but she took from her breast the cluster of crimson roses she wore and slipped them gently between the toil-worn fingers .
`` Good-bye , dear , sweet mother-heart , '' she murmured .
Down-stairs she met Mrs. William splendid in rustling black silk , her broad , rubicund face smiling , overflowing with apologies and welcomes , which Joscelyn cut short coldly .
`` Thank you , Mrs. Morrison , but I can not possibly stay longer .
No , thank you , I don't care for any refreshments .
Jordan is going to take me back to Kensington at once .
I came out to see Aunty Nan . ''
`` I 'm certain she 'd be delighted , '' said Mrs. William effusively .
`` She's been talking about you for weeks . ''
`` Yes , it has made her very happy , '' said Joscelyn gravely .
`` And it has made me happy , too .
I love Aunty Nan , Mrs. Morrison , and I owe her much .
In all my life I have never met a woman so purely , unselfishly good and noble and true . ''
`` Fancy now , '' said Mrs. William , rather overcome at hearing this great singer pronounce such an encomium on quiet , timid old Aunty Nan .
Jordan drove Joscelyn back to Kensington ; and up-stairs in her room Aunty Nan slept , with that rapt smile on her face and Joscelyn's red roses in her hands .
Thus it was that Mrs. William found her , going in the next morning with her breakfast .
The sunlight crept over the pillow , lighting up the sweet old face and silver hair , and stealing downward to the faded red roses on her breast .
Smiling and peaceful and happy lay Aunty Nan , for she had fallen on the sleep that knows no earthy wakening , while little Joscelyn sang .
