The fifth heat in the free-for-all was just over .
`` Lu-Lu '' had won , and the crowd on the grand stand and the hangers-on around the track were cheering themselves hoarse .
Clear through the noisy clamour shrilled a woman's cry .
`` Ah -- I have dropped my scorecard . ''
A man in front of her turned .
`` I have an extra one , madame .
Will you accept it ? ''
Her small , modishly-gloved hand closed eagerly on it before she lifted her eyes to his face .
Both started convulsively .
The man turned very pale , but the woman's ripe-tinted face coloured darkly .
`` You ? ''
she faltered .
His lips parted in the coldly-grave smile she remembered and hated .
`` You are not glad to see me , '' he said calmly , `` but that , I suppose , was not to be expected .
I did not come here to annoy you .
This meeting is as unexpected to me as to you .
I had no suspicion that for the last half-hour I had been standing next to my -- '' She interrupted him by an imperious gesture .
Still clutching the scorecard she half-turned from him .
Again he smiled , this time with a tinge of scorn , and shifted his eyes to the track .
None of the people around them had noticed the little by-play .
All eyes were on the track , which was being cleared for the first heat of another race .
The free-for-all horses were being led away blanketed .
The crowd cheered `` Lu-Lu '' as she went past , a shapeless oddity .
The backers of `` Mascot '' , the rival favourite , looked gloomy .
The woman noticed nothing of all this .
She was small , very pretty , still young , and gowned in a quite unmistakable way .
She studied the man's profile furtively .
He looked older than when she had seen him last -- there were some silver threads gleaming in his close-clipped dark hair and short , pointed beard .
Otherwise there was little change in the quiet features and somewhat stern grey eyes .
She wondered if he had cared at all .
They had not met for five years .
She shut her eyes and looked in on her past .
It all came back very vividly .
She had been eighteen when they were married -- a gay , high-spirited girl and the season's beauty .
He was much older and a quiet , serious student .
Her friends had wondered why she married him -- sometimes she wondered herself , but she had loved him , or thought so .
The marriage had been an unhappy one .
She was fond of society and gaiety , he wanted quiet and seclusion .
She Was impulsive and impatient , he deliberate and grave .
The strong wills clashed .
After two years of an unbearable sort of life they had separated -- quietly , and without scandal of any sort .
She had wanted a divorce , but he would not agree to that , so she had taken her own independent fortune and gone back to her own way of life .
In the following five years she had succeeded in burying all remembrance well out of sight .
No one knew if she were satisfied or not ; her world was charitable to her and she lived a gay and quite irreproachable life .
She wished that she had not come to the races .
It was such an irritating encounter .
She opened her eyes wearily ; the dusty track , the flying horses , the gay dresses of the women on the grandstand , the cloudless blue sky , the brilliant September sunshine , the purple distances all commingled in a glare that made her head ache .
Before it all she saw the tall figure by her side , his face turned from her , watching the track intently .
She wondered with a vague curiosity what induced him to come to the races .
Such things were not greatly in his line .
Evidently their chance meeting had not disturbed him .
It was a sign that he did not care .
She sighed a little wearily and closed her eyes .
When the heat was over he turned to her .
`` May I ask how you have been since -- since we met last ?
You are looking extremely well .
Has Vanity Fair palled in any degree ? ''
She was angry at herself and him .
Where had her careless society manner and well-bred composure gone ?
She felt weak and hysterical .
What if she should burst into tears before the whole crowd -- before those coldly critical grey eyes ?
She almost hated him .
`` No -- why should it ?
I have found it very pleasant -- and I have been well -- very well .
And you ? ''
He jotted down the score carefully before he replied .
`` I ?
Oh , a book-worm and recluse always leads a placid life .
I never cared for excitement , you know .
I came down here to attend a sale of some rare editions , and a well-meaning friend dragged me out to see the races .
I find it rather interesting , I must confess , much more so than I should have fancied .
Sorry I can't stay until the end .
I must go as soon as the free-for-all is over , if not before .
I have backed ` Mascot ' ; you ? '' ''
` Lu-Lu ' '' she answered quickly -- it almost seemed defiantly .
How horribly unreal it was -- this carrying on of small talk , as if they were the merest of chance-met acquaintances !
`` She belongs to a friend of mine , so I am naturally interested . ''
`` She and ` Mascot ' are ties now -- both have won two heats .
One more for either will decide it .
This is a good day for the races .
Excuse me . ''
He leaned over and brushed a scrap of paper from her grey cloak .
She shivered slightly .
`` You are cold !
This stand is draughty . ''
`` I am not at all cold , thank you .
What race is this ?
-- oh !
the three-minute one . ''
She bent forward with assumed interest to watch the scoring .
She was breathing heavily .
There were tears in her eyes -- she bit her lips savagely and glared at the track until they were gone .
Presently he spoke again , in the low , even tone demanded by circumstances .
`` This is a curious meeting , is it not ?
-- quite a flavor of romance !
By-the-way , do you read as many novels as ever ? ''
She fancied there was mockery in his tone .
She remembered how very frivolous he used to consider her novel-reading .
Besides , she resented the personal tinge .
What right had he ?
`` Almost as many , '' she answered carelessly .
`` I was very intolerant , wasn't I ? ''
he said after a pause .
`` You thought so -- you were right .
You have been happier since you -- left me ? ''
`` Yes , '' she said defiantly , looking straight into his eyes .
`` And you do not regret it ? ''
He bent down a little .
His sleeve brushed against her shoulder .
Something in his face arrested the answer she meant to make .
`` I -- I -- did not say that , '' she murmured faintly .
There was a burst of cheering .
The free-for-all horses were being brought out for the sixth heat .
She turned away to watch them .
The scoring began , and seemed likely to have no end .
She was tired of it all .
It didn't matter a pin to her whether `` Lu-Lu '' or `` Mascot '' won .
What did matter !
Had Vanity Fair after all been a satisfying exchange for love ?
He had loved her once , and they had been happy at first .
She had never before said , even in her own heart : `` I am sorry , '' but -- suddenly , she felt his hand on her shoulder , and looked up .
Their eyes met .
He stooped and said almost in a whisper : `` Will you come back to me ? ''
`` I don't know , '' she whispered breathlessly , as one half-fascinated .
`` We were both to blame -- but I the most .
I was too hard on you -- I ought to have made more allowance .
We are wiser now both of us .
Come back to me -- my wife . ''
His tone was cold and his face expressionless .
It was on her lips to cry out `` No , '' passionately .
But the slender , scholarly hand on her shoulder was trembling with the intensity of his repressed emotion .
He did care , then .
A wild caprice flashed into her brain .
She sprang up .
`` See , '' she cried , `` they 're off now .
This heat will probably decide the race .
If ` Lu-Lu ' wins I will not go back to you , if ` Mascot ' does I will .
That is my decision . ''
He turned paler , but bowed in assent .
He knew by bitter experience how unchangeable her whims were , how obstinately she clung to even the most absurd .
She leaned forward breathlessly .
The crowd hung silently on the track .
`` Lu-Lu '' and `` Mascot '' were neck and neck , getting in splendid work .
Half-way round the course `` Lu-Lu '' forged half a neck ahead , and her backers went mad .
But one woman dropped her head in her hands and dared look no more .
One man with white face and set lips watched the track unswervingly .
Again `` Mascot '' crawled up , inch by inch .
They were on the home stretch , they were equal , the cheering broke out , then silence , then another terrific burst , shouts , yells and clappings -- `` Mascot '' had won the free-for-all .
In the front row a woman stood up , swayed and shaken as a leaf in the wind .
She straightened her scarlet hat and readjusted her veil unsteadily .
There was a smile on her lips and tears in her eyes .
No one noticed her .
A man beside her drew her hand through his arm in a quiet proprietary fashion .
They left the grand stand together .
