It was a rainy afternoon , and we had been passing the time by telling ghost stories .
That is a very good sort of thing for a rainy afternoon , and it is a much better time than after night .
If you tell ghost stories after dark they are apt to make you nervous , whether you own up to it or not , and you sneak home and dodge upstairs in mortal terror , and undress with your back to the wall , so that you can't fancy there is anything behind you .
We had each told a story , and had had the usual assortment of mysterious noises and death warnings and sheeted spectres and so on , down through the whole catalogue of horrors -- enough to satisfy any reasonable ghost-taster .
But Jack , as usual , was dissatisfied .
He said our stories were all second-hand stuff .
There wasn't a man in the crowd who had ever seen or heard a ghost ; all our so-called authentic stories had been told us by persons who had the story from other persons who saw the ghosts .
`` One doesn't get any information from that , '' said Jack .
`` I never expect to get so far along as to see a real ghost myself , but I would like to see and talk to one who had . ''
Some persons appear to have the knack of getting their wishes granted .
Jack is one of that ilk .
Just as he made the remark , Davenport sauntered in and , finding out what was going on , volunteered to tell a ghost story himself -- something that had happened to his grandmother , or maybe it was his great-aunt ; I forget which .
It was a very good ghost story as ghost stories go , and Davenport told it well .
Even Jack admitted that , but he said : `` It 's only second-hand too .
Did you ever have a ghostly experience yourself , old man ? ''
Davenport put his finger tips critically together .
`` Would you believe me if I said I had ? ''
he asked .
`` No , '' said Jack unblushingly .
`` Then there would be no use in my saying it . ''
`` But you don't mean that you ever really had , of course ? ''
`` I don't know .
Something queer happened once .
I've never been able to explain it -- from a practical point of view , that is .
Want to hear about it ? ''
Of course we did .
This was exciting .
Nobody would ever have suspected Davenport of seeing ghosts .
`` It 's conventional enough , '' he began .
`` Ghosts don't seem to have much originality .
But it 's firsthand , Jack , if that 's what you want .
I don't suppose any of you have ever heard me speak of my brother , Charles .
He was my senior by two years , and was a quiet , reserved sort of fellow -- not at all demonstrative , but with very strong and deep affections .
`` When he left college he became engaged to Dorothy Chester .
She was very beautiful , and my brother idolized her .
She died a short time before the date set for their marriage , and Charles never recovered from the blow .
`` I married Dorothy 's sister , Virginia .
Virginia did not in the least resemble her sister , but our eldest daughter was strikingly like her dead aunt .
We called her Dorothy , and Charles was devoted to her .
Dolly , as we called her , was always ` Uncle Charley 's girl . '
`` When Dolly was twelve years old Charles went to New Orleans on business , and while there took yellow fever and died .
He was buried there , and Dolly half broke her childish heart over his death .
`` One day , five years later , when Dolly was seventeen , I was writing letters in my library .
That very morning my wife and Dolly had gone to New York en route for Europe .
Dolly was going to school in Paris for a year .
Business prevented my accompanying them even as far as New York , but Gilbert Chester , my wife 's brother , was going with them .
They were to sail on the Aragon the next morning .
`` I had written steadily for about an hour .
At last , growing tired , I threw down my pen and , leaning back in my chair , was on the point of lighting a cigar when an unaccountable impulse made me turn round .
I dropped my cigar and sprang to my feet in amazement .
There was only one door in the room and I had all along been facing it .
I could have sworn nobody had entered , yet there , standing between me and the bookcase , was a man -- and that man was my brother Charles !
`` There was no mistaking him ; I saw him as plainly as I see you .
He was a tall , rather stout man , with curly hair and a fair , close-clipped beard .
He wore the same light-grey suit which he had worn when bidding us good-bye on the morning of his departure for New Orleans .
He had no hat on , but wore spectacles , and was standing in his old favourite attitude , with his hands behind him .
`` I want you to understand that at this precise moment , although I was surprised beyond measure , I was not in the least frightened , because I did not for a moment suppose that what I saw was -- well , a ghost or apparition of any sort .
The thought that flashed across my bewildered brain was simply that there had been some absurd mistake somewhere , and that my brother had never died at all , but was here , alive and well .
I took a hasty step towards him . ''
` Good heavens , old fellow ! '
I exclaimed .
` Where on earth have you come from ?
Why , we all thought you were dead ! '
`` I was quite close to him when I stopped abruptly .
Somehow I couldn't move another step .
He made no motion , but his eyes looked straight into mine . ''
` Do not let Dolly sail on the Aragon tomorrow , ' he said in slow , clear tones that I heard distinctly .
`` And then he was gone -- yes , Jack , I know it is a very conventional way of ending up a ghost story , | but I have to tell you just what occurred , or at least what I thought occurred .
One moment he was there and the next moment he wasn't .
He did not pass me or go out of the door .
`` For a few moments I felt dazed .
I was wide awake and in my right and proper senses so far as I could judge , and yet the whole thing seemed incredible .
Scared ?
No , I wasn't conscious of being scared .
I was simply bewildered .
`` In my mental confusion one thought stood out sharply -- Dolly was in danger of some kind , and if the warning was really from a supernatural source , it must not be disregarded .
I rushed to the station and , having first wired to my wife not to sail on the Aragon , I found that I could connect with the five-fifteen train for New York .
I took it with the comfortable consciousness that my friends would certainly think I had gone out of my mind .
`` I arrived in New York at eight o'clock the next morning and at once drove to the hotel where my wife , daughter and brother-in-law were staying .
I found them greatly mystified by my telegram .
I suppose my explanation was a very lame one .
I know I felt decidedly like a fool .
Gilbert laughed at me and said I had dreamed the whole thing .
Virginia was perplexed , but Dolly accepted the warning unhesitatingly . ''
` Of course it was Uncle Charley , ' she said confidently .
` We will not sail on the Aragon now . '
`` Gilbert had to give in to this decision with a very bad grace , and the Aragon sailed that day minus three of her intended passengers .
`` Well , you've all heard of the historic collision between the Aragon and the Astarte in a fog , and the fearful loss of life it involved .
Gilbert didn't laugh when the news came , I assure you .
Virginia and Dolly sailed a month later on the Marseilles , and reached the other side in safety .
That 's all the story , boys -- the only experience of the kind I ever had , '' concluded Davenport .
We had many questions to ask and several theories to advance .
Jack said Davenport had dreamed it and that the collision of the Aragon and the Astarte was simply a striking coincidence .
But Davenport merely smiled at all our suggestions and , as it cleared up just about three , we told no more ghost stories .
