When Lawrence Eastman began going to see Bessy Houghton the Lynnfield people shrugged their shoulders and said he might have picked out somebody a little younger and prettier -- but then , of course , Bessy was well off .
A two-hundred-acre farm and a substantial bank account were worth going in for .
Trust an Eastman for knowing upon which side his bread was buttered .
Lawrence was only twenty , and looked even younger , owing to his smooth , boyish face , curly hair , and half-girlish bloom .
Bessy Houghton was in reality no more than twenty-five , but Lynnfield people had the impression that she was past thirty .
She had always been older than her years -- a quiet , reserved girl who dressed plainly and never went about with other young people .
Her mother had died when Bessy was very young , and she had always kept house for her father .
The responsibility made her grave and mature .
When she was twenty her father died and Bessy was his sole heir .
She kept the farm and took the reins of government in her own capable hands .
She made a success of it too , which was more than many a man in Lynnfield had done .
Bessy had never had a lover .
She had never seemed like other girls , and passed for an old maid when her contemporaries were in the flush of social success and bloom .
Mrs. Eastman , Lawrence's mother , was a widow with two sons .
George , the older , was the mother's favourite , and the property had been willed to him by his father .
To Lawrence had been left the few hundreds in the bank .
He stayed at home and hired himself to George , thereby adding slowly to his small hoard .
He had his eye on a farm in Lynnfield , but he was as yet a mere boy , and his plans for the future were very vague until he fell in love with Bessy Houghton .
In reality nobody was more surprised over this than Lawrence himself .
It had certainly been the last thing in his thoughts on the dark , damp night when he had overtaken Bessy walking home alone from prayer meeting and had offered to drive her the rest of the way .
Bessy assented and got into his buggy .
At first she was very silent , and Lawrence , who was a bashful lad at the best of times , felt tongue-tied and uncomfortable .
But presently Bessy , pitying his evident embarrassment , began to talk to him .
She could talk well , and Lawrence found himself entering easily into the spirit of her piquant speeches .
He had an odd feeling that he had never known Bessy Houghton before ; he had certainly never guessed that she could be such good company .
She was very different from the other girls he knew , but he decided that he liked the difference .
`` Are you going to the party at Baileys ' tomorrow night ? ''
he asked , as he helped her to alight at her door .
`` I don't know , '' she answered .
`` I 'm invited -- but I 'm all alone -- and parties have never been very much in my line . ''
There was a wistful note in her voice , and Lawrence detecting it , said hurriedly , not giving himself time to get frightened : `` Oh , you 'd better go to this one .
And if you like , I'll call around and take you . ''
He wondered if she would think him very presumptuous .
He thought her voice sounded colder as she said : `` I am afraid that it would be too much trouble for you . ''
`` It wouldn't be any trouble at all , '' he stammered .
`` I'll be very pleased to take you . ''
In the end Bessy had consented to go , and the next evening Lawrence called for her in the rose-red autumn dusk .
Bessy was ready and waiting .
She was dressed in what was for her unusual elegance , and Lawrence wondered why people called Bessy Houghton so plain .
Her figure was strikingly symmetrical and softly curved .
Her abundant , dark-brown hair , instead of being parted plainly and drawn back into a prim coil as usual , was dressed high on her head , and a creamy rose nestled amid the becoming puffs and waves .
She wore black , as she usually did , but it was a lustrous black silk , simply and fashionably made , with frost-like frills of lace at her firm round throat and dainty wrists .
Her cheeks were delicately flushed , and her wood-brown eyes were sparkling under her long lashes .
She offered him a half-opened bud for his coat and pinned it on for him .
As he looked down at her he noticed what a sweet mouth she had -- full and red , with a half child-like curve .
The fact that Lawrence Eastman took Bessy Houghton to the Baileys ' party made quite a sensation at that festal scene .
People nodded and winked and wondered .
`` An old maid and her money , '' said Milly Fiske spitefully .
Milly , as was well known , had a liking for Lawrence herself .
Lawrence began to `` go with '' Bessy Houghton regularly after that .
In his single-mindedness he never feared that Bessy would misjudge his motives or imagine him to be prompted by mercenary designs .
He never thought of her riches himself , and it never occurred to him that she would suppose he did .
He soon realized that he loved her , and he ventured to hope timidly that she loved him in return .
She was always rather reserved , but the few favours that meant nothing from other girls meant a great deal from Bessy .
The evenings he spent with her in her pretty sitting-room , their moonlight drives over long , satin-smooth stretches of snowy roads , and their walks home from church and prayer meeting under the winter stars , were all so many moments of supreme happiness to Lawrence .
* * * * * Matters had gone thus far before Mrs. Eastman got her eyes opened .
At Mrs. Tom Bailey's quilting party an officious gossip took care to inform her that Lawrence was supposed to be crazy over Bessy Houghton , who was , of course , encouraging him simply for the sake of having someone to beau her round , and who would certainly throw him over in the end since she knew perfectly well that it was her money he was after .
Mrs. Eastman was a proud woman and a determined one .
She had always disliked Bessy Houghton , and she went home from the quilting resolved to put an instant stop to `` all such nonsense '' on her son's part .
`` Where is Lawrie ? ''
she asked abruptly ; as she entered the small kitchen where George Eastman was lounging by the fire .
`` Out in the stable grooming up Lady Grey , '' responded her older son sulkily .
`` I suppose he's gadding off to see Bessy Houghton again , the young fool that he is !
Why don't you put a stop to it ? ''
`` I am going to put a stop to it , '' said Mrs. Eastman grimly .
`` I 'd have done it before if I 'd known .
You should have told me of it if you knew .
I 'm going out to see Lawrence right now . ''
George Eastman muttered something inaudible as the door closed behind her .
He was a short , thickset man , not in the least like Lawrence , who was ten years his junior .
Two years previously he had made a furtive attempt to pay court to Bessy Houghton for the sake of her wealth , and her decided repulse of his advances was a remembrance that made him grit his teeth yet .
He had hated her bitterly ever since .
Lawrence was brushing his pet mare's coat until it shone like satin , and whistling `` Annie Laurie '' until the rafters rang .
Bessy had sung it for him the night before .
He could see her plainly still as she had looked then , in her gown of vivid red -- a colour peculiarly becoming to her -- with her favourite laces at wrist and throat and a white rose in her hair , which was dressed in the high , becoming knot she had always worn since the night he had shyly told her he liked it so .
She had played and sung many of the sweet old Scotch ballads for him , and when she had gone to the door with him he had taken both her hands in his and , emboldened by the look in her brown eyes , he had stooped and kissed her .
Then he had stepped back , filled with dismay at his own audacity .
But Bessy had said no word of rebuke , and only blushed hotly crimson .
She must care for him , he thought happily , or else she would have been angry .
When his mother came in at the stable door her face was hard and uncompromising .
`` Lawrie , '' she said sharply , `` where are you going again tonight ?
You were out last night . ''
`` Well , Mother , I promise you I wasn't in any bad company .
Come now , don't quiz a fellow too close . ''
`` You are going to dangle after Bessy Houghton again .
It's time you were told what a fool you were making of yourself .
She's old enough to be your mother .
The whole settlement is laughing at you . ''
Lawrence looked as if his mother had struck him a blow in the face .
A dull , purplish flush crept over his brow .
`` This is some of George's work , '' he broke out fiercely .
`` He's been setting you on me , has he ?
Yes , he's jealous -- he wanted Bessy himself , but she would not look at him .
He thinks nobody knows it , but I do .
Bessy marry him ?
It's very likely ! ''
`` Lawrie Eastman , you are daft .
George hasn't said anything to me .
You surely don't imagine Bessy Houghton would marry you .
And if she would , she is too old for you .
Now , don't you hang around her any longer . ''
`` I will , '' said Lawrence flatly .
`` I don't care what anybody says .
You needn't worry over me .
I can take care of myself . ''
Mrs. Eastman looked blankly at her son .
He had never defied or disobeyed her in his life before .
She had supposed her word would be law .
Rebellion was something she had not dreamed of .
Her lips tightened ominously and her eyes narrowed .
`` You 're a bigger fool than I took you for , '' she said in a voice that trembled with anger .
`` Bessy Houghton laughs at you everywhere .
She knows you 're just after her money , and she makes fun -- '' `` Prove it , '' interrupted Lawrence undauntedly , `` I 'm not going to put any faith in Lynnfield gossip .
Prove it if you can . ''
`` I can prove it .
Maggie Hatfield told me what Bessy Houghton said to her about you .
She said you were a lovesick fool , and she only went with you for a little amusement , and that if you thought you had nothing to do but marry her and hang up your hat there you 'd find yourself vastly mistaken . ''
Possibly in her calmer moments Mrs. Eastman might have shrunk from such a deliberate falsehood , although it was said of her in Lynnfield that she was not one to stick at a lie when the truth would not serve her purpose .
Moreover , she felt quite sure that Lawrence would never ask Maggie Hatfield anything about it .
Lawrence turned white to the lips , `` Is that true , Mother ? ''
he asked huskily .
`` I've warned you , '' replied his mother , not choosing to repeat her statement .
`` If you go after Bessy any more you can take the consequences . ''
She drew her shawl about her pale , malicious face and left him with a parting glance of contempt .
`` I guess that'll settle him , '' she thought grimly .
`` Bessy Houghton turned up her nose at George , but she shan't make a fool of Lawrence too . ''
Alone in the stable Lawrence stood staring out at the dull red ball of the winter sun with unseeing eyes .
He had implicit faith in his mother , and the stab had gone straight to his heart .
Bessy Houghton listened in vain that night for his well-known footfall on the verandah .
The next night Lawrence went home with Milly Fiske from prayer meeting , taking her out from a crowd of other girls under Bessy Houghton's very eyes as she came down the steps of the little church .
Bessy walked home alone .
The light burned low in her sitting-room , and in the mirror over the mantel she saw her own pale face , with its tragic , pain-stricken eyes .
Annie Hillis , her `` help , '' was out .
She was alone in the big house with her misery and despair .
She went dizzily upstairs to her own room and flung herself on the bed in the chill moonlight .
`` It is all over , '' she said dully .
All night she lay there , fighting with her pain .
In the wan , grey morning she looked at her mirrored self with pitying scorn -- at the pallid face , the lifeless features , the dispirited eyes with their bluish circles .
`` What a fool I have been to imagine he could care for me ! ''
she said bitterly .
`` He has only been amusing himself with my folly .
And to think that I let him kiss me the other night ! ''
She thought of that kiss with a pitiful shame .
She hated herself for the weakness that could not check her tears .
Her lonely life had been brightened by the companionship of her young lover .
The youth and girlhood of which fate had cheated her had come to her with love ; the future had looked rosy with promise ; now it had darkened with dourness and greyness .
Maggie Hatfield came that day to sew .
Bessy had intended to have a dark-blue silk made up and an evening waist of pale pink cashmere .
She had expected to wear the latter at a party which was to come off a fortnight later , and she had got it to please Lawrence , because he had told her that pink was his favourite colour .
She would have neither it nor the silk made up now .
She put them both away and instead brought out an ugly pattern of snuff-brown stuff , bought years before and never used .
`` But where is your lovely pink , Bessy ? ''
asked the dressmaker .
`` Aren't you going to have it for the party ? ''
`` No , I 'm not going to have it made up at all , '' said Bessy listlessly .
`` It's too gay for me .
I was foolish to think it would ever suit me .
This brown will do for a spring suit .
It doesn't make much difference what I wear . ''
Maggie Hatfield , who had not been at prayer meeting the night beforehand knew nothing of what had occurred , looked at her curiously , wondering what Lawrence Eastman could see in her to be as crazy about her as some people said he was .
Bessy was looking her oldest and plainest just then , with her hair combed severely back from her pale , dispirited face .
`` It must be her money he is after , '' thought the dressmaker .
`` She looks over thirty , and she can't pretend to be pretty .
I believe she thinks a lot of him , though . ''
For the most part , Lynnfield people believed that Bessy had thrown Lawrence over .
This opinion was borne out by his woebegone appearance .
He was thin and pale ; his face had lost its youthful curves and looked hard and mature .
He was moody and taciturn and his speech and manner were marked by a new cynicism .
* * * * * In April a well-to-do storekeeper from an adjacent village began to court Bessy Houghton .
He was over fifty , and had never been a handsome man in his best days , but Lynnfield oracles opined that Bessy would take him .
She couldn't expect to do any better , they said , and she was looking terribly old and dowdy all at once .
In June Maggie Hatfield went to the Eastmans ' to sew .
The first bit of news she imparted to Mrs. Eastman was that Bessy Houghton had refused Jabez Lea -- at least , he didn't come to see her any more .
Mrs. Eastman twitched her thread viciously .
`` Bessy Houghton was born an old maid , '' she said sharply .
`` She thinks nobody is good enough for her , that is what's the matter .
Lawrence got some silly boy-notion into his head last winter , but I soon put a stop to that . ''
`` I always had an idea that Bessy thought a good deal of Lawrence , '' said Maggie .
`` She has never been the same since he left off going with her .
I was up there the morning after that prayer-meeting night people talked so much of , and she looked positively dreadful , as if she hadn't slept a wink the whole night . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Mrs. Eastman decisively .
`` She would never think of taking a boy like him when she 'd turned up her nose at better men .
And I didn't want her for a daughter-in-law anyhow .
I can't bear her .
So I put my foot down in time .
Lawrence sulked for a spell , of course -- boy-fashion -- and he's been as fractious as a spoiled baby ever since . ''
`` Well , I dare say you 're right , '' assented the dressmaker .
`` But I must say I had always imagined that Bessy had a great notion of Lawrence .
Of course , she's so quiet it is hard to tell .
She never says a word about herself . ''
There was an unsuspected listener to this conversation .
Lawrence had come in from the field for a drink , and was standing in the open kitchen doorway , within easy earshot of the women's shrill tones .
He had never doubted his mother's word at any time in his life , but now he knew beyond doubt that there had been crooked work somewhere .
He shrank from believing his mother untrue , yet where else could the crookedness come in ?
When Mrs. Eastman had gone to the kitchen to prepare dinner , Maggie Hatfield was startled by the appearance of Lawrence at the low open window of the sitting-room .
`` Mercy me , how you scared me ! ''
she exclaimed nervously .
`` Maggie , '' said Lawrence seriously , `` I want to ask you a question .
Did Bessy Houghton ever say anything to you about me or did you ever say that she did ?
Give me a straight answer . ''
The dressmaker peered at him curiously .
`` No .
Bessy never so much as mentioned your name to me , '' she said , `` and I never heard that she did to anyone else .
Why ? ''
`` Thank you .
That was all I wanted to know , '' said Lawrence , ignoring her question , and disappearing as suddenly as he had come .
That evening at moonrise he passed through the kitchen dressed in his Sunday best .
His mother met him at the door .
`` Where are you going ? ''
she asked querulously .
Lawrence looked her squarely in the face with accusing eyes , before which her own quailed .
`` I 'm going to see Bessy Houghton , Mother , '' he said sternly , `` and to ask her pardon for believing the lie that has kept us apart so long . ''
Mrs. Eastman flushed crimson and opened her lips to speak .
But something in Lawrence's grave , white face silenced her .
She turned away without a word , knowing in her secret soul that her youngest-born was lost to her forever .
Lawrence found Bessy in the orchard under apple trees that were pyramids of pearly bloom .
She looked at him through the twilight with reproach and aloofness in her eyes .
But he put out his hands and caught her reluctant ones in a masterful grasp .
`` Listen to me , Bessy .
Don't condemn me before you've heard me .
I've been to blame for believing falsehoods about you , but I believe them no longer , and I've come to ask you to forgive me . ''
He told his story simply and straightforwardly .
In strict justice he could not keep his mother's name out of it , but he merely said she had been mistaken .
Perhaps Bessy understood none the less .
She knew what Mrs. Eastman's reputation in Lynnfield was .
`` You might have had a little more faith in me , '' she cried reproachfully .
`` I know -- I know .
But I was beside myself with pain and wretchedness .
Oh , Bessy , won't you forgive me ?
I love you so !
If you send me away I'll go to the dogs .
Forgive me , Bessy . ''
And she , being a woman , did forgive him .
`` I've loved you from the first , Lawrence , '' she said , yielding to his kiss .
