It had never worried me in the least that I wasn't married , although everybody in Avonlea pitied old maids ; but it DID worry me , and I frankly confess it , that I had never had a chance to be .
Even Nancy , my old nurse and servant , knew that , and pitied me for it .
Nancy is an old maid herself , but she has had two proposals .
She did not accept either of them because one was a widower with seven children , and the other a very shiftless , good-for-nothing fellow ; but , if anybody twitted Nancy on her single condition , she could point triumphantly to those two as evidence that `` she could an she would . ''
If I had not lived all my life in Avonlea I might have had the benefit of the doubt ; but I had , and everybody knew everything about me -- or thought they did .
I had really often wondered why nobody had ever fallen in love with me .
I was not at all homely ; indeed , years ago , George Adoniram Maybrick had written a poem addressed to me , in which he praised my beauty quite extravagantly ; that didn't mean anything because George Adoniram wrote poetry to all the good-looking girls and never went with anybody but Flora King , who was cross-eyed and red-haired , but it proves that it was not my appearance that put me out of the running .
Neither was it the fact that I wrote poetry myself -- although not of George Adoniram's kind -- because nobody ever knew that .
When I felt it coming on I shut myself up in my room and wrote it out in a little blank book I kept locked up .
It is nearly full now , because I have been writing poetry all my life .
It is the only thing I have ever been able to keep a secret from Nancy .
Nancy , in any case , has not a very high opinion of my ability to take care of myself ; but I tremble to imagine what she would think if she ever found out about that little book .
I am convinced she would send for the doctor post-haste and insist on mustard plasters while waiting for him .
Nevertheless , I kept on at it , and what with my flowers and my cats and my magazines and my little book , I was really very happy and contented .
But it DID sting that Adella Gilbert , across the road , who has a drunken husband , should pity `` poor Charlotte '' because nobody had ever wanted her .
Poor Charlotte indeed !
If I had thrown myself at a man's head the way Adella Gilbert did at -- but there , there , I must refrain from such thoughts .
I must not be uncharitable .
The Sewing Circle met at Mary Gillespie's on my fortieth birthday .
I have given up talking about my birthdays , although that little scheme is not much good in Avonlea where everybody knows your age -- or if they make a mistake it is never on the side of youth .
But Nancy , who grew accustomed to celebrating my birthdays when I was a little girl , never gets over the habit , and I don't try to cure her , because , after all , it's nice to have some one make a fuss over you .
She brought me up my breakfast before I got up out of bed -- a concession to my laziness that Nancy would scorn to make on any other day of the year .
She had cooked everything I like best , and had decorated the tray with roses from the garden and ferns from the woods behind the house .
I enjoyed every bit of that breakfast , and then I got up and dressed , putting on my second best muslin gown .
I would have put on my really best if I had not had the fear of Nancy before my eyes ; but I knew she would never condone THAT , even on a birthday .
I watered my flowers and fed my cats , and then I locked myself up and wrote a poem on June .
I had given up writing birthday odes after I was thirty .
In the afternoon I went to the Sewing Circle .
When I was ready for it I looked in my glass and wondered if I could really be forty .
I was quite sure I didn't look it .
My hair was brown and wavy , my cheeks were pink , and the lines could hardly be seen at all , though possibly that was because of the dim light .
I always have my mirror hung in the darkest corner of my room .
Nancy can not imagine why .
I know the lines are there , of course ; but when they don't show very plain I forget that they are there .
We had a large Sewing Circle , young and old alike attending .
I really can not say I ever enjoyed the meetings -- at least not up to that time -- although I went religiously because I thought it my duty to go .
The married women talked so much of their husbands and children , and of course I had to be quiet on those topics ; and the young girls talked in corner groups about their beaux , and stopped it when I joined them , as if they felt sure that an old maid who had never had a beau couldn't understand at all .
As for the other old maids , they talked gossip about every one , and I did not like that either .
I knew the minute my back was turned they would fasten into me and hint that I used hair-dye and declare it was perfectly ridiculous for a woman of FIFTY to wear a pink muslin dress with lace-trimmed frills .
There was a full attendance that day , for we were getting ready for a sale of fancy work in aid of parsonage repairs .
The young girls were merrier and noisier than usual .
Wilhelmina Mercer was there , and she kept them going .
The Mercers were quite new to Avonlea , having come here only two months previously .
I was sitting by the window and Wilhelmina Mercer , Maggie Henderson , Susette Cross and Georgie Hall were in a little group just before me .
I wasn't listening to their chatter at all , but presently Georgie exclaimed teasingly : `` Miss Charlotte is laughing at us .
I suppose she thinks we are awfully silly to be talking about beaux . ''
The truth was that I was simply smiling over some very pretty thoughts that had come to me about the roses which were climbing over Mary Gillespie's sill .
I meant to inscribe them in the little blank book when I went home .
Georgie's speech brought me back to harsh realities with a jolt .
It hurt me , as such speeches always did .
`` Didn't you ever have a beau , Miss Holmes ? ''
said Wilhelmina laughingly .
Just as it happened , a silence had fallen over the room for a moment , and everybody in it heard Wilhelmina's question .
I really do not know what got into me and possessed me .
I have never been able to account for what I said and did , because I am naturally a truthful person and hate all deceit .
It seemed to me that I simply could not say `` No '' to Wilhelmina before that whole roomful of women .
It was TOO humiliating .
I suppose all the prickles and stings and slurs I had endured for fifteen years on account of never having had a lover had what the new doctor calls `` a cumulative effect '' and came to a head then and there .
`` Yes , I had one once , my dear , '' I said calmly .
For once in my life I made a sensation .
Every woman in that room stopped sewing and stared at me .
Most of them , I saw , didn't believe me , but Wilhelmina did .
Her pretty face lighted up with interest .
`` Oh , won't you tell us about him , Miss Holmes ? ''
she coaxed , `` and why didn't you marry him ? ''
`` That is right , Miss Mercer , '' said Josephine Cameron , with a nasty little laugh .
`` Make her tell .
We 're all interested .
It's news to us that Charlotte ever had a beau . ''
If Josephine had not said that , I might not have gone on .
But she did say it , and , moreover , I caught Mary Gillespie and Adella Gilbert exchanging significant smiles .
That settled it , and made me quite reckless .
`` In for a penny , in for a pound , '' thought I , and I said with a pensive smile : `` Nobody here knew anything about him , and it was all long , long ago . ''
`` What was his name ? ''
asked Wilhelmina .
`` Cecil Fenwick , '' I answered promptly .
Cecil had always been my favorite name for a man ; it figured quite frequently in the blank book .
As for the Fenwick part of it , I had a bit of newspaper in my hand , measuring a hem , with `` Try Fenwick's Porous Plasters '' printed across it , and I simply joined the two in sudden and irrevocable matrimony .
`` Where did you meet him ? ''
asked Georgie .
I hastily reviewed my past .
There was only one place to locate Cecil Fenwick .
The only time I had ever been far enough away from Avonlea in my life was when I was eighteen and had gone to visit an aunt in New Brunswick .
`` In Blakely , New Brunswick , '' I said , almost believing that I had when I saw how they all took it in unsuspectingly .
`` I was just eighteen and he was twenty-three . ''
`` What did he look like ? ''
Susette wanted to know .
`` Oh , he was very handsome . ''
I proceeded glibly to sketch my ideal .
To tell the dreadful truth , I was enjoying myself ; I could see respect dawning in those girls ' eyes , and I knew that I had forever thrown off my reproach .
Henceforth I should be a woman with a romantic past , faithful to the one love of her life -- a very , very different thing from an old maid who had never had a lover .
`` He was tall and dark , with lovely , curly black hair and brilliant , piercing eyes .
He had a splendid chin , and a fine nose , and the most fascinating smile ! ''
`` What was he ? ''
asked Maggie .
`` A young lawyer , '' I said , my choice of profession decided by an enlarged crayon portrait of Mary Gillespie's deceased brother on an easel before me .
He had been a lawyer .
`` Why didn't you marry him ? ''
demanded Susette .
`` We quarreled , '' I answered sadly .
`` A terribly bitter quarrel .
Oh , we were both so young and so foolish .
It was my fault .
I vexed Cecil by flirting with another man '' -- wasn't I coming on !
-- `` and he was jealous and angry .
He went out West and never came back .
I have never seen him since , and I do not even know if he is alive .
But -- but -- I could never care for any other man . ''
`` Oh , how interesting ! ''
sighed Wilhelmina .
`` I do so love sad love stories .
But perhaps he will come back some day yet , Miss Holmes . ''
`` Oh , no , never now , '' I said , shaking my head .
`` He has forgotten all about me , I dare say .
Or if he hasn't , he has never forgiven me . ''
Mary Gillespie's Susan Jane announced tea at this moment , and I was thankful , for my imagination was giving out , and I didn't know what question those girls would ask next .
But I felt already a change in the mental atmosphere surrounding me , and all through supper I was thrilled with a secret exultation .
Repentant ?
Ashamed ?
Not a bit of it !
I 'd have done the same thing over again , and all I felt sorry for was that I hadn't done it long ago .
When I got home that night Nancy looked at me wonderingly , and said : `` You look like a girl to-night , Miss Charlotte . ''
`` I feel like one , '' I said laughing ; and I ran to my room and did what I had never done before -- wrote a second poem in the same day .
I had to have some outlet for my feelings .
I called it `` In Summer Days of Long Ago , '' and I worked Mary Gillespie's roses and Cecil Fenwick's eyes into it , and made it so sad and reminiscent and minor-musicky that I felt perfectly happy .
For the next two months all went well and merrily .
Nobody ever said anything more to me about Cecil Fenwick , but the girls all chattered freely to me of their little love affairs , and I became a sort of general confidant for them .
It just warmed up the cockles of my heart , and I began to enjoy the Sewing Circle famously .
I got a lot of pretty new dresses and the dearest hat , and I went everywhere I was asked and had a good time .
But there is one thing you can be perfectly sure of .
If you do wrong you are going to be punished for it sometime , somehow and somewhere .
My punishment was delayed for two months , and then it descended on my head and I was crushed to the very dust .
Another new family besides the Mercers had come to Avonlea in the spring -- the Maxwells .
There were just Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell ; they were a middle-aged couple and very well off .
Mr. Maxwell had bought the lumber mills , and they lived up at the old Spencer place which had always been `` the '' place of Avonlea .
They lived quietly , and Mrs. Maxwell hardly ever went anywhere because she was delicate .
She was out when I called and I was out when she returned my call , so that I had never met her .
It was the Sewing Circle day again -- at Sarah Gardiner's this time .
I was late ; everybody else was there when I arrived , and the minute I entered the room I knew something had happened , although I couldn't imagine what .
Everybody looked at me in the strangest way .
Of course , Wilhelmina Mercer was the first to set her tongue going .
`` Oh , Miss Holmes , have you seen him yet ? ''
she exclaimed .
`` Seen whom ? ''
I said non-excitedly , getting out my thimble and patterns .
`` Why , Cecil Fenwick .
He's here -- in Avonlea -- visiting his sister , Mrs. Maxwell . ''
I suppose I did what they expected me to do .
I dropped everything I held , and Josephine Cameron said afterwards that Charlotte Holmes would never be paler when she was in her coffin .
If they had just known why I turned so pale !
`` It's impossible ! ''
I said blankly .
`` It's really true , '' said Wilhelmina , delighted at this development , as she supposed it , of my romance .
`` I was up to see Mrs. Maxwell last night , and I met him . ''
`` It -- can't be -- the same -- Cecil Fenwick , '' I said faintly , because I had to say something .
`` Oh , yes , it is .
He belongs in Blakely , New Brunswick , and he's a lawyer , and he's been out West twenty-two years .
He's oh !
so handsome , and just as you described him , except that his hair is quite gray .
He has never married -- I asked Mrs. Maxwell -- so you see he has never forgotten you , Miss Holmes .
And , oh , I believe everything is going to come out all right . ''
I couldn't exactly share her cheerful belief .
Everything seemed to me to be coming out most horribly wrong .
I was so mixed up I didn't know what to do or say .
I felt as if I were in a bad dream -- it MUST be a dream -- there couldn't really be a Cecil Fenwick !
My feelings were simply indescribable .
Fortunately every one put my agitation down to quite a different cause , and they very kindly left me alone to recover myself .
I shall never forget that awful afternoon .
Right after tea I excused myself and went home as fast as I could go .
There I shut myself up in my room , but NOT to write poetry in my blank book .
No , indeed !
I felt in no poetical mood .
I tried to look the facts squarely in the face .
There was a Cecil Fenwick , extraordinary as the coincidence was , and he was here in Avonlea .
All my friends -- and foes -- believed that he was the estranged lover of my youth .
If he stayed long in Avonlea , one of two things was bound to happen .
He would hear the story I had told about him and deny it , and I would be held up to shame and derision for the rest of my natural life ; or else he would simply go away in ignorance , and everybody would suppose he had forgotten me and would pity me maddeningly .
The latter possibility was bad enough , but it wasn't to be compared to the former ; and oh , how I prayed -- yes , I DID pray about it -- that he would go right away .
But Providence had other views for me .
Cecil Fenwick didn't go away .
He stayed right on in Avonlea , and the Maxwells blossomed out socially in his honor and tried to give him a good time .
Mrs. Maxwell gave a party for him .
I got a card -- but you may be very sure I didn't go , although Nancy thought I was crazy not to .
Then every one else gave parties in honor of Mr. Fenwick and I was invited and never went .
Wilhelmina Mercer came and pleaded and scolded and told me if I avoided Mr. Fenwick like that he would think I still cherished bitterness against him , and he wouldn't make any advances towards a reconciliation .
Wilhelmina means well , but she hasn't a great deal of sense .
Cecil Fenwick seemed to be a great favorite with everybody , young and old .
He was very rich , too , and Wilhelmina declared that half the girls were after him .
`` If it wasn't for you , Miss Holmes , I believe I 'd have a try for him myself , in spite of his gray hair and quick temper -- for Mrs. Maxwell says he has a pretty quick temper , but it's all over in a minute , '' said Wilhelmina , half in jest and wholly in earnest .
As for me , I gave up going out at all , even to church .
I fretted and pined and lost my appetite and never wrote a line in my blank book .
Nancy was half frantic and insisted on dosing me with her favorite patent pills .
I took them meekly , because it is a waste of time and energy to oppose Nancy , but , of course , they didn't do me any good .
My trouble was too deep-seated for pills to cure .
If ever a woman was punished for telling a lie I was that woman .
I stopped my subscription to the Weekly Advocate because it still carried that wretched porous plaster advertisement , and I couldn't bear to see it .
If it hadn't been for that I would never have thought of Fenwick for a name , and all this trouble would have been averted .
One evening , when I was moping in my room , Nancy came up .
`` There's a gentleman in the parlor asking for you , Miss Charlotte . ''
My heart gave just one horrible bounce .
`` What -- sort of a gentleman , Nancy ? ''
I faltered .
`` I think it's that Fenwick man that there's been such a time about , '' said Nancy , who didn't know anything about my imaginary escapades , `` and he looks to be mad clean through about something , for such a scowl I never seen . ''
`` Tell him I'll be down directly , Nancy , '' I said quite calmly .
As soon as Nancy had clumped downstairs again I put on my lace fichu and put two hankies in my belt , for I thought I 'd probably need more than one .
Then I hunted up an old Advocate for proof , and down I went to the parlor .
I know exactly how a criminal feels going to execution , and I've been opposed to capital punishment ever since .
I opened the parlor door and went in , carefully closing it behind me , for Nancy has a deplorable habit of listening in the hall .
Then my legs gave out completely , and I couldn't have walked another step to save my life .
I just stood there , my hand on the knob , trembling like a leaf .
A man was standing by the south window looking out ; he wheeled around as I went in , and , as Nancy said , he had a scowl on and looked angry clear through .
He was very handsome , and his gray hair gave him such a distinguished look .
I recalled this afterward , but just at the moment you may be quite sure I wasn't thinking about it at all .
Then all at once a strange thing happened .
The scowl went right off his face and the anger out of his eyes .
He looked astonished , and then foolish .
I saw the color creeping up into his cheeks .
As for me , I still stood there staring at him , not able to say a single word .
`` Miss Holmes , I presume , '' he said at last , in a deep , thrilling voice .
`` I -- I -- oh , confound it !
I have called -- I heard some foolish stories and I came here in a rage .
I've been a fool -- I know now they weren't true .
Just excuse me and I'll go away and kick myself . ''
`` No , '' I said , finding my voice with a gasp , `` you mustn't go until you've heard the truth .
It's dreadful enough , but not as dreadful as you might otherwise think .
Those -- those stories -- I have a confession to make .
I did tell them , but I didn't know there was such a person as Cecil Fenwick in existence . ''
He looked puzzled , as well he might .
Then he smiled , took my hand and led me away from the door -- to the knob of which I was still holding with all my might -- to the sofa .
`` Let's sit down and talk it over ` comfy , ' '' he said .
I just confessed the whole shameful business .
It was terribly humiliating , but it served me right .
I told him how people were always twitting me for never having had a beau , and how I had told them I had ; and then I showed him the porous plaster advertisement .
He heard me right through without a word , and then he threw back his big , curly , gray head and laughed .
`` This clears up a great many mysterious hints I've been receiving ever since I came to Avonlea , '' he said , `` and finally a Mrs. Gilbert came to my sister this afternoon with a long farrago of nonsense about the love affair I had once had with some Charlotte Holmes here .
She declared you had told her about it yourself .
I confess I flamed up .
I 'm a peppery chap , and I thought -- I thought -- oh , confound it , it might as well out : I thought you were some lank old maid who was amusing herself telling ridiculous stories about me .
When you came into the room I knew that , whoever was to blame , you were not . ''
`` But I was , '' I said ruefully .
`` It wasn't right of me to tell such a story -- and it was very silly , too .
But who would ever have supposed that there could be real Cecil Fenwick who had lived in Blakely ?
I never heard of such a coincidence . ''
`` It's more than a coincidence , '' said Mr. Fenwick decidedly .
`` It's predestination ; that is what it is .
And now let's forget it and talk of something else . ''
We talked of something else -- or at least Mr. Fenwick did , for I was too ashamed to say much -- so long that Nancy got restive and clumped through the hall every five minutes ; but Mr. Fenwick never took the hint .
When he finally went away he asked if he might come again .
`` It's time we made up that old quarrel , you know , '' he said , laughing .
And I , an old maid of forty , caught myself blushing like a girl .
But I felt like a girl , for it was such a relief to have that explanation all over .
I couldn't even feel angry with Adella Gilbert .
She was always a mischief maker , and when a woman is born that way she is more to be pitied than blamed .
I wrote a poem in the blank book before I went to sleep ; I hadn't written anything for a month , and it was lovely to be at it once more .
Mr. Fenwick did come again -- the very next evening , but one .
And he came so often after that that even Nancy got resigned to him .
One day I had to tell her something .
I shrank from doing it , for I feared it would make her feel badly .
`` Oh , I've been expecting to hear it , '' she said grimly .
`` I felt the minute that man came into the house he brought trouble with him .
Well , Miss Charlotte , I wish you happiness .
I don't know how the climate of California will agree with me , but I suppose I'll have to put up with it . ''
`` But , Nancy , '' I said , `` I can't expect you to go away out there with me .
It's too much to ask of you . ''
`` And where else would I be going ? ''
demanded Nancy in genuine astonishment .
`` How under the canopy could you keep house without me ?
I 'm not going to trust you to the mercies of a yellow Chinee with a pig-tail .
Where you go I go , Miss Charlotte , and there's an end of it . ''
I was very glad , for I hated to think of parting with Nancy even to go with Cecil .
As for the blank book , I haven't told my husband about it yet , but I mean to some day .
And I've subscribed for the Weekly Advocate again .
