`` Well , Miss Maxwell , how did you get along today ? ''
asked Mr. Baxter affably , when the new teacher came to the table .
She was a slight , dark girl , rather plain-looking , but with a smart , energetic way .
Mr. Baxter approved of her ; he `` liked her style , '' as he would have said .
The summer term had just opened in the Maitland district .
Esther Maxwell was a stranger , but she was a capable girl , and had no doubt of her own ability to get and keep the school in good working order .
She smiled brightly at Mr. Baxter .
`` Very well for a beginning .
The children seem bright and teachable and not hard to control . ''
Mr. Baxter nodded .
`` There are no bad children in the school except the Cropper boys -- and they can be good enough if they like .
Reckon they weren't there today ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , Miss Maxwell , I think it only fair to tell you that you may have trouble with those boys when they do come .
Forewarned is forearmed , you know .
Mr. Cropper was opposed to our hiring you .
Not , of course , that he had any personal objection to you , but he is set against female teachers , and when a Cropper is set there is nothing on earth can change him .
He says female teachers can't keep order .
He 's started in with a spite at you on general principles , and the boys know it .
They know he'll back them up in secret , no matter what they do , just to prove his opinions .
Cropper is sly and slippery , and it is hard to corner him . ''
`` Are the boys big ? ''
queried Esther anxiously .
`` Yes .
Thirteen and fourteen and big for their age .
You can't whip 'em -- that is the trouble .
A man might , but they 'd twist you around their fingers .
you'll have your hands full , I 'm afraid .
But maybe they'll behave all right after all . ''
Mr. Baxter privately had no hope that they would , but Esther hoped for the best .
She could not believe that Mr. Cropper would carry his prejudices into a personal application .
This conviction was strengthened when he overtook her walking from school the next day and drove her home .
He was a big , handsome man with a very suave , polite manner .
He asked interestedly about her school and her work , hoped she was getting on well , and said he had two young rascals of his own to send soon .
Esther felt relieved .
She thought that Mr. Baxter had exaggerated matters a little .
`` That plum tree of Mrs. Charley 's is loaded with fruit again this year , '' remarked Mr. Baxter at the tea table that evening .
`` I came past it today on my way ` cross lots home from the woods .
There will be bushels of plums on it . ''
`` I don't suppose poor Mrs. Charley will get one of them any more than she ever has , '' said Mrs. Baxter indignantly .
`` It 's a burning shame , that 's what it is !
I just wish she could catch the Croppers once . ''
`` You haven't any proof that it is really them , Mary , '' objected her husband , `` and you shouldn't make reckless accusations before folks . ''
`` I know very well it is them , '' retorted Mrs. Baxter , `` and so do you , Adoniram .
And Mrs. Charley knows it too , although she can't prove it -- more 's the pity !
I don't say Isaac Cropper steals those plums with his own hands .
But he knows who does -- and the plums go into Mehitable Cropper 's preserving kettle ; there 's nothing surer . ''
`` You see , Miss Maxwell , it 's this way , '' explained Mr. Baxter , turning to Esther .
`` Mrs. Charley Cropper 's husband was Isaac 's brother .
They never got on well together , and when Charley died there was a tremendous fuss about the property .
Isaac acted mean and scandalous clear through , and public opinion has been down on him ever since .
But Mrs. Charley is a pretty smart woman , and he didn't get the better of her in everything .
There was a strip of disputed land between the two farms , and she secured it .
There 's a big plum tree growing on it close to the line fence .
It 's the finest one in Maitland .
But Mrs. Charley never gets a plum from it . ''
`` But what becomes of them ? ''
asked Esther .
`` They disappear , '' said Mr. Baxter , with a significant nod .
`` When the plums are anything like ripe Mrs. Charley discovers some day that there isn't one left on the tree .
She has never been able to get a scrap of proof as to who took them , or she 'd make it hot for them .
But nobody in Maitland has any doubt in his own mind that Isaac Cropper knows where those plums go . ''
`` I don't think Mr. Cropper would steal , '' protested Esther .
`` Well , he doesn't consider it stealing , you know .
He claims the land and says the plums are his .
I don't doubt that he is quite clear in his own mind that they are .
And he does hate Mrs. Charley .
I 'd give considerable to see the old sinner fairly caught , but he is too deep . ''
`` I think Mr. Baxter is too hard on Mr. Cropper , '' said Esther to herself later on .
`` He has probably some private prejudice against him . ''
* * * * * But a month later she had changed her opinion .
During that time the Cropper boys had come to school .
At first Esther had been inclined to like them .
They were handsome lads , with the same smooth way that characterized their father , and seemed bright and intelligent .
For a few days all went well , and Esther felt decidedly relieved .
But before long a subtle spirit of insubordination began to make itself felt in the school .
Esther found herself powerless to cope with it .
The Croppers never openly defied her , but they did precisely as they pleased .
The other pupils thought themselves at liberty to follow this example , and in a month 's time poor Esther had completely lost control of her little kingdom .
Some complaints were heard among the ratepayers and even Mr. Baxter looked dubious .
She knew that unless she could regain her authority she would be requested to hand in her resignation , but she was baffled by the elusive system of defiance which the Cropper boys had organized .
One day she resolved to go to Mr. Cropper himself and appeal to his sense of justice , if he had any .
It had been an especially hard day in school .
When she had been absent at the noon hour all the desks in the schoolroom had been piled in a pyramid on the floor , books and slates interchanged , and various other pranks played .
When questioned every pupil denied having done or helped to do it .
Alfred and Bob Cropper looked her squarely in the eyes and declared their innocence in their usual gentlemanly fashion , yet Esther felt sure that they were the guilty ones .
She also knew what exaggerated accounts of the affair would be taken home to Maitland tea tables , and she felt like sitting down to cry .
But she did not .
Instead she set her mouth firmly , helped the children restore the room to order , and after school went up to Isaac Cropper 's house .
That gentleman himself came in from the harvest field looking as courtly as usual , even in his rough working clothes .
He shook hands heartily , told her he was glad to see her , and began talking about the weather .
Esther was not to be turned from her object thus , although she felt her courage ebbing away from her as it always did in the presence of the Cropper imperviousness .
`` I have come up to see you about Alfred and Robert , Mr. Cropper , '' she said .
`` They are not behaving well in school . ''
`` Indeed ! ''
Mr. Cropper 's voice expressed bland surprise .
`` That is strange .
As a rule I do not think Alfred and Robert have been troublesome to their teachers .
What have they been doing now ? ''
`` They refuse to obey my orders , '' said Esther faintly .
`` Ah , well , Miss Maxwell , perhaps you will pardon my saying that a teacher should be able to enforce her orders .
My boys are high-spirited fellows and need a strong , firm hand to restrain them .
I have always said I considered it advisable to employ a male teacher in Maitland school .
We should have better order .
Not that I disapprove of you personally -- far from it .
I should be glad to see you succeed .
But I have heard many complaints regarding the order in school at present . ''
`` I had no trouble until your boys came , '' retorted Esther , losing her temper a little , `` and I believe that if you were willing to co-operate with me that I could govern them . ''
`` Well , you see , '' said Mr. Cropper easily , `` when I send my boys to school I naturally expect that the teacher will be capable of doing the work she has been hired to do . ''
`` Then you refuse to help me ? ''
said Esther in a trembling voice .
`` Why , my dear young lady , what can I do ?
Boys soon know when they can disobey a teacher with impunity .
No doubt you will be able to secure a school easier to control and will do good work .
But here , as I have already said , we need a firm hand at the helm .
But you are not going yet , Miss Maxwell ?
You need some refreshment after your long walk .
Mrs. Cropper will bring you in something . ''
`` No , thank you , '' said poor Esther .
She felt that she must get away at once or she would burst into heartsick tears under those steely , bland blue eyes .
When she got home she shut herself up in her room and cried .
There was nothing for her to do but resign , she thought dismally .
On the following Saturday Esther went for an afternoon walk , carrying her kodak with her .
It was a brilliantly fine autumn day , and woods and fields were basking in a mellow haze .
Esther went across lots to Mrs. Charley Cropper 's house , intending to make a call .
But the house was locked up and evidently deserted , so she rambled past it to the back fields .
Passing through a grove of maples she came out among leafy young saplings on the other side .
Just beyond her , with its laden boughs hanging over the line fence , was the famous plum tree .
Esther looked at it for a moment .
Then an odd smile gleamed over her face and she lifted her kodak .
Monday evening Esther called on Mr. Cropper again .
After the preliminary remarks in which he indulged , she said , with seeming irrelevance , that Saturday had been a fine day .
`` There was an excellent light for snapshots , '' she went on coolly .
`` I went out with my kodak and was lucky enough to get a good negative .
I have brought you up a proof .
I thought you would be interested in it . ''
She rose and placed the proof on the table before Mr. Cropper .
The plum tree came out clearly .
Bob and Alf Cropper were up among the boughs picking the plums .
On the ground beneath them stood their father with a basket of fruit in his hand .
Mr. Cropper looked at the proof and from it to Esther .
His eyes had lost their unconcerned glitter , but his voice was defiant .
`` The plums are mine by right , '' he said .
`` Perhaps , '' said Esther calmly , `` but there are some who do not think so .
Mrs. Charley , for instance -- she would like to see this proof , I think . ''
`` don't show it to her , '' cried Mr. Cropper hastily .
`` I tell you , Miss Maxwell , the plums are mine .
But I am tired of fighting over them and I had decided before this that I 'd let her have them after this .
It 's only a trifle , anyhow .
And about that little matter we were discussing the other night , Miss Maxwell .
I have been thinking it over , and I admit I was somewhat unreasonable .
I'll talk to Alfred and Robert and see what I can do . ''
`` Very well , '' said Esther quietly .
`` The matter of the plums isn't my business and I don't wish to be involved in your family feuds , especially as you say that you mean to allow Mrs. Charley to enjoy her own in future .
As for the school , we will hope that matters will improve . ''
`` you'll leave the proof with me , won't you ? ''
said Mr. Cropper eagerly .
`` Oh , certainly , '' said Esther , smiling .
`` I have the negative still , you know . ''
From that time out the Cropper boys were models of good behaviour and the other turbulent spirits , having lost their leaders , were soon quelled .
Complaint died away , and at the end of the term Esther was re-engaged .
`` You seem to have won old Cropper over to your side entirely , '' Mr. Baxter told her that night .
`` He said at the meeting today that you were the best teacher we had ever had and moved to raise your salary .
I never knew Isaac Cropper to change his opinions so handsomely . ''
Esther smiled . She knew it had taken a powerful lever to change Mr. Cropper's opinion, but she kept her own counsel.
