Chester did the chores with unusual vim that night .
His lips were set and there was an air of resolution as plainly visible on his small , freckled face as if it had been stamped there .
Mrs. Elwell saw him flying around , and her grim features took on a still grimmer expression .
`` Ches is mighty lively tonight , '' she muttered .
`` I s ` pose he 's in a gog to be off on some foolishness with Henry Wilson .
Well , he won't , and he needn't think it . ''
Lige Barton , the hired man , also thought this was Chester 's purpose , but he took a more lenient view of it than did Mrs. Elwell .
`` The little chap is going through things with a rush this evening , '' he reflected .
`` Guess he 's laying out for a bit of fun with the Wilson boy . ''
But Chester was not planning anything connected with Henry Wilson , who lived on the other side of the pond and was the only chum he possessed .
After the chores were done , he lingered a little while around the barns , getting his courage keyed up to the necessary pitch .
Chester Stephens was an orphan without kith or kin in the world , unless his father 's stepsister , Mrs. Harriet Elwell , could be called so .
His parents had died in his babyhood , and Mrs. Elwell had taken him to bring up .
She was a harsh woman , with a violent temper , and she had scolded and worried the boy all his short life .
Upton people said it was a shame , but nobody felt called upon to interfere .
Mrs. Elwell was not a person one would care to make an enemy of .
She eyed Chester sourly when he went in , expecting some request to be allowed to go with Henry , and prepared to refuse it sharply .
`` Aunt Harriet , '' said Chester suddenly , `` can I go to school this year ?
It begins tomorrow . ''
`` No , '' said Mrs. Elwell , when she had recovered from her surprise at this unexpected question .
`` you've had schoolin ' in plenty -- more 'n I ever had , and all you 're goin ' to get ! ''
`` But , Aunt Harriet , '' persisted Chester , his face flushed with earnestness , `` I 'm nearly thirteen , and I can barely read and write a little .
The other boys are ever so far ahead of me .
I don't know anything . ''
`` You know enough to be disrespectful ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Elwell .
`` I suppose you want to go to school to idle away your time , as you do at home -- lazy good-for-nothing that you are ! ''
Chester thought of the drudgery that had been his portion all his life .
He resented being called lazy when he was willing enough to work , but he made one more appeal .
`` If you'll let me go to school this year , I'll work twice as hard out of school to make up for it -- indeed , I will .
Do let me go , Aunt Harriet .
I haven't been to school a day for over a year . ''
`` Let 's hear no more of this nonsense , '' said Mrs. Elwell , taking a bottle from the shelf above her with the air of one who closes a discussion .
`` Here , run down to the Bridge and get me this bottle full of vinegar at Jacob 's store .
Be smart , too , d'ye hear !
I ain't going to have you idling around the Bridge neither .
If you ain't back in twenty minutes , it won't be well for you . ''
Chester did his errand at the Bridge with a heart full of bitter disappointment and anger .
`` I won't stand it any longer ! ''
he muttered .
`` I'll run away -- I don't care where , so long as it 's away from her .
I wish I could get out West on the harvest excursions . ''
On his return home , as he crossed the yard in the dusk , he stumbled over a stick of wood and fell .
The bottle of vinegar slipped from his hand and was broken on the doorstep .
Mrs. Elwell saw the accident from the window .
She rushed out and jerked the unlucky lad to his feet .
`` Take that , you sulky little cub ! ''
she exclaimed , cuffing his ears soundly .
`` I'll teach you to break and spill things you 're sent for !
You did it on purpose .
Get off to bed with you this instant . ''
Chester crept off to his garret chamber with a very sullen face .
He was too used to being sent to bed without any supper to care much for that , although he was hungry .
But his whole being was in a tumult of rebellion over the injustice that was meted out to him .
`` I won't stand it ! ''
he muttered over and over again .
`` I'll run away .
I won't stay here . ''
To talk of running away was one thing .
To do it without a cent in your pocket or a place to run to was another .
But Chester had a great deal of determination in his make-up when it was fairly roused , and his hard upbringing had made him older and shrewder than his years .
He lay awake late that night , thinking out ways and means , but could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion .
The next day Mrs. Elwell said , `` Ches , Abner Stearns wants you to go up there for a fortnight while Tom Bixby is away , and drive the milk wagon of mornings and do the chores for Mrs. Stearns .
You might as well put in the time ` fore harvest that way as any other .
So hustle off -- and mind you behave yourself . ''
Chester heard the news gladly .
He had not yet devised any feasible plan for running away , and he always liked to work at the Stearns ' place .
To be sure , Mrs. Elwell received all the money he earned , but Mrs. Stearns was kind to him , and though he had to work hard and constantly , he was well fed and well treated by all .
The following fortnight was a comparatively happy one for the lad .
But he did not forget his purpose of shaking the dust of Upton from his feet as soon as possible , and he cudgelled his brains trying to find a way .
On the evening when he left the Stearns ' homestead , Mr. Stearns paid him for his fortnight 's work , much to the boy 's surprise , for Mrs. Elwell had always insisted that all such money should be paid directly to her .
Chester found himself the possessor of four dollars -- an amount of riches that almost took away his breath .
He had never in his whole life owned more than ten cents at a time .
As he tramped along the road home , he kept his hand in his pocket , holding fast to the money , as if he feared it would otherwise dissolve into thin air .
His mind was firmly made up .
He would run away once and for all .
This money was rightly his ; he had earned every cent of it .
It would surely last him until he found employment elsewhere .
At any rate , he would go ; and even if he starved , he would never come back to Aunt Harriet 's !
When he reached home , he found Mrs. Elwell in an unusual state of worry .
Lige had given warning -- and this on the verge of harvest !
`` Did Stearns say anything about coming down tomorrow to pay me for your work ? ''
she asked .
`` No , ma'am .
He didn't say a word about it , '' said Chester boldly .
`` Well , I hope he will .
Take yourself off to bed , Ches .
I 'm sick of seeing you standing there , on one foot or t ` other , like a gander . ''
Chester had been shifting about uneasily .
He realized that , if his project did not miscarry , he would not see his aunt again , and his heart softened to her .
Harsh as she was , she was the only protector he had ever known , and the boy had a vague wish to carry away with him some kindly word or look from her .
Such , however , was not forthcoming , and Chester obeyed her command and took himself off to the garret .
Here he sat down and reflected on his plans .
He must go that very night .
When Mr. Stearns failed to appear on the morrow , Mrs. Elwell was quite likely to march up and demand the amount of Chester 's wages .
It would all come out then , and he would lose his money -- besides , no doubt , getting severely punished into the bargain .
His preparations did not take long .
He had nothing to carry with him .
The only decent suit of clothes he possessed was his well-worn Sunday one .
This he put on , carefully stowing away in his pocket the precious four dollars .
He had to wait until he thought his aunt was asleep , and it was about eleven when he crept downstairs , his heart quaking within him , and got out by the porch window .
When he found himself alone in the clear moonlight of the August night , a sense of elation filled his cramped little heart .
He was free , and he would never come back here -- never !
`` Wisht I could have seen Henry to say good-by to him , though , '' he muttered with a wistful glance at the big house across the pond where the unconscious Henry was sleeping soundly with never a thought of moonlight flittings for anyone in his curly head .
Chester meant to walk to Roxbury Station ten miles away .
Nobody knew him there , and he could catch the morning train .
Late as it was , he kept to fields and wood-roads lest he might be seen and recognized .
It was three o'clock when he reached Roxbury , and he knew the train did not pass through until six .
With the serenity of a philosopher who is starting out to win his way in the world and means to make the best of things , Chester curled himself up in the hollow space of a big lumber pile behind the station , and so tired was he that he fell soundly asleep in a few minutes .
* * * * * Chester was awakened by the shriek of the express at the last crossing before the station .
In a panic of haste he scrambled out of his lumber and dashed into the station house , where a sleepy , ill-natured agent stood behind the ticket window .
He looked sharply enough at the freckled , square-jawed boy who asked for a second-class ticket to Belltown .
Chester 's heart quaked within him at the momentary thought that the ticket agent recognized him .
He had an agonized vision of being collared without ceremony and haled straightway back to Aunt Harriet .
When the ticket and his change were pushed out to him , he snatched them and fairly ran .
`` Bolted as if the police were after him , '' reflected the agent , who did not sell many tickets and so had time to take a personal interest in the purchasers thereof .
`` I've seen that youngster before , though I can't recollect where .
He 's got a most fearful determined look . ''
Chester drew an audible sigh of relief when the train left the station .
He was fairly off now and felt that he could defy even curious railway officials .
It was not his first train ride , for Mrs. Elwell had once taken him to Belltown to get an aching tooth extracted , but it was certainly his first under such exhilarating circumstances , and he meant to enjoy it .
To be sure , he was very hungry , but that , he reflected , was only what he would probably be many times before he made his fortune , and it was just as well to get used to it .
Meanwhile , it behooved him to keep his eyes open .
On the road from Roxbury to Belltown there was not much to be seen that morning that Chester did not see .
The train reached Belltown about noon .
He did not mean to stop long there -- it was too near Upton .
From the conductor on the train , he found that a boat left Belltown for Montrose at two in the afternoon .
Montrose was a hundred miles from Upton , and Chester thought he would be safe there .
To Montrose , accordingly , he decided to go , but the first thing was to get some dinner .
He went into a grocery store and bought some crackers and a bit of cheese .
He had somewhere picked up the idea that crackers and cheese were about as economical food as you could find for adventurous youths starting out on small capital .
He found his way to the only public square Belltown boasted , and munched his food hungrily on a bench under the trees .
He would go to Montrose and there find something to do .
Later on he would gradually work his way out West , where there was more room for an ambitious small boy to expand and grow .
Chester dreamed some dazzling dreams as he sat there on the bench under the Belltown chestnuts .
Passers-by , if they noticed him at all , saw merely a rather small , poorly clad boy , with a great many freckles , a square jaw and shrewd , level-gazing grey eyes .
But this same lad was mapping out a very brilliant future for himself as people passed him heedlessly by .
He would get out West , somehow or other , some time or other , and make a fortune .
Then , perhaps , he would go back to Upton for a visit and shine in his splendour before all his old neighbours .
It all seemed very easy and alluring , sitting there in the quiet little Belltown square .
Chester , you see , possessed imagination .
That , together with the crackers and cheese , so cheered him up that he felt ready for anything .
He was aroused from a dream of passing Aunt Harriet by in lofty scorn and a glittering carriage , by the shrill whistle of the boat .
Chester pocketed his remaining crackers and cheese and his visions also , and was once more his alert , wide-awake self .
He had inquired the way to the wharf from the grocer , so he found no difficulty in reaching it .
When the boat steamed down the muddy little river , Chester was on board of her .
He was glad to be out of Belltown , for he was anything but sure that he would not encounter some Upton people as long as he was in it .
They often went to Belltown on business , but never to Montrose .
There were not many passengers on the boat , and Chester scrutinized them all so sharply in turn that he could have sworn to each and every one of them for years afterwards had it been necessary .
The one he liked best was a middle-aged lady who sat just before him on the opposite side of the deck She was plump and motherly looking , with a fresh , rosy face and beaming blue eyes .
`` If I was looking for anyone to adopt me I 'd pick her , '' said Chester to himself .
The more he looked at her , the better he liked her .
He labelled her in his mind as `` the nice , rosy lady . ''
The nice , rosy lady noticed Chester staring at her after awhile .
She smiled promptly at him -- a smile that seemed fairly to irradiate her round face -- and then began fumbling in an old-fashioned reticule she carried , and from which she presently extracted a chubby little paper bag .
`` If you like candy , little boy , '' she said to Chester , `` here is some of my sugar taffy for you . ''
Chester did not exactly like being called a little boy .
But her voice and smile were irresistible and won his heart straightway .
He took the candy with a shy , `` Thank you , ma'am , '' and sat holding it in his hand .
`` Eat it , '' commanded the rosy lady authoritatively .
`` That is what taffy is for , you know . ''
So Chester ate it .
It was the most delicious thing he had ever tasted in his life , and filled a void which even the crackers and cheese had left vacant .
The rosy lady watched every mouthful he ate as if she enjoyed it more than he did .
When he had finished the taffy she smiled one of her sociable smiles again and said , `` Well , what do you think of it ? ''
`` It 's the nicest taffy I ever ate , '' answered Chester enthusiastically , as if he were a connoisseur in all kinds of taffies .
The rosy lady nodded , well pleased .
`` That is just what everyone says about my sugar taffy .
Nobody up our way can match it , though goodness knows they try hard enough .
My great-grandmother invented the recipe herself , and it has been in our family ever since .
I 'm real glad you liked it . ''
She smiled at him again , as if his appreciation of her taffy was a bond of good fellowship between them .
She did not know it but , nevertheless , she was filling the heart of a desperate small boy , who had run away from home , with hope and encouragement and self-reliance .
If there were such kind folks as this in the world , why , he would get along all right .
The rosy lady 's smiles and taffy -- the smiles much more than the taffy -- went far to thaw out of him a certain hardness and resentfulness against people in general that Aunt Harriet 's harsh treatment had instilled into him .
Chester instantly made a resolve that when he grew stout and rosy and prosperous he would dispense smiles and taffy and good cheer generally to all forlorn small boys on boats and trains .
It was almost dark when they reached Montrose .
Chester lost sight of the rosy lady when they left the boat , and it gave him a lonesome feeling ; but he could not indulge in that for long at a time .
Here he was at his destination -- at dark , in a strange city a hundred miles from home .
`` The first thing is to find somewhere to sleep , '' he said to himself , resolutely declining to feel frightened , although the temptation was very strong .
Montrose was not really a very big place .
It was only a bustling little town of some twenty thousand inhabitants , but to Chester 's eyes it was a vast metropolis .
He had never been in any place bigger than Belltown , and in Belltown you could see one end of it , at least , no matter where you were .
Montrose seemed endless to Chester as he stood at the head of Water Street and gazed in bewilderment along one of its main business avenues -- a big , glittering , whirling place where one small boy could so easily be swallowed up that he would never be heard of again .
Chester , after paying his fare to Montrose and buying his cheese and crackers , had just sixty cents left .
This must last him until he found work , so that the luxury of lodgings was out of the question , even if he had known where to look for them .
To be sure , there were benches in a public square right in front of him ; but Chester was afraid that if he curled up on one of them for the night , a policeman might question him , and he did not believe he could give a very satisfactory account of himself .
In his perplexity , he thought of his cosy lumber pile at Roxbury Station and remembered that when he had left the boat he had noticed a large vacant lot near the wharf which was filled with piles of lumber .
Back to this he went and soon succeeded in finding a place to stow himself .
His last waking thought was that he must be up and doing bright and early the next morning , and that it must surely be longer than twenty-four hours since he had crept downstairs and out of Aunt Harriet 's porch window at Upton .
* * * * * Montrose seemed less alarming by daylight , which was not so bewildering as the blinking electric lights .
Chester was up betimes , ate the last of his cheese and crackers and started out at once to look for work .
He determined to be thorough , and he went straight into every place of business he came to , from a blacksmith 's forge to a department store , and boldly asked the first person he met if they wanted a boy there .
There was , however , one class of places Chester shunned determinedly .
He never went into a liquor saloon .
The last winter he had been allowed to go to school in Upton , his teacher had been a pale , patient little woman who hated the liquor traffic with all her heart .
She herself had suffered bitterly through it , and she instilled into her pupils a thorough aversion to it .
Chester would have chosen death by starvation before he would have sought for employment in a liquor saloon .
But there certainly did not seem room for him anywhere else .
Nobody wanted a boy .
The answer to his question was invariably `` No . ''
As the day wore on , Chester 's hopes and courage went down to zero , but he still tramped doggedly about .
He would be thorough , at least .
Surely somewhere in this big place , where everyone seemed so busy , there must be something for him to do .
Once there seemed a chance of success .
He had gone into a big provision store and asked the clerk behind the counter if they wanted a boy .
`` Well , we do , '' said the clerk , looking him over critically , `` but I hardly think you'll fill the bill .
However , come in and see the boss . ''
He took Chester into a dark , grimy little inner office where a fat , stubby man was sitting before a desk with his feet upon it .
`` Hey ?
What ! ''
he said when the clerk explained .
`` Looking for the place ?
Why , sonny , you 're not half big enough . ''
`` Oh , I 'm a great deal bigger than I look , '' cried Chester breathlessly .
`` That is , sir -- I mean I 'm ever so much stronger than I look .
I'll work hard , sir , ever so hard -- and I'll grow . ''
The fat , stubby man roared with laughter .
What was grim earnest to poor Chester was a joke to him .
`` No doubt you will , my boy , '' he said genially , `` but I 'm afraid you'll hardly grow fast enough to suit us .
Boys aren't like pigweed , you know .
No , no , our boy must be a big , strapping fellow of eighteen or nineteen .
he'll have a deal of heavy lifting to do . ''
Chester went out of the store with a queer choking in his throat .
For one horrible moment he thought he was going to cry -- he , Chester Stephens , who had run away from home to do splendid things !
A nice ending that would be to his fine dreams !
He thrust his hands into his pockets and strode along the street , biting his lips fiercely .
He would not cry -- no , he would not !
And he would find work !
Chester did not cry , but neither , alas , did he find work .
He parted with ten cents of his precious hoard for more crackers , and he spend the night again in the lumber yard .
Perhaps I'll have better luck tomorrow , he thought hopefully .
But it really seemed as if there were to be no luck for Chester except bad luck .
Day after day passed and , although he tramped resolutely from street to street and visited every place that seemed to offer any chance , he could get no employment .
In spite of his pluck , his heart began to fail him .
At the end of a week Chester woke up among his lumber to a realization that he was at the end of his resources .
He had just five cents left out of the four dollars that were to have been the key to his fortune .
He sat gloomily on the wall of his sleeping apartment and munched the one solitary cracker he had left .
It must carry him through the day unless he got work .
The five cents must be kept for some dire emergency .
He started uptown rather aimlessly .
In his week 's wanderings he had come to know the city very well and no longer felt confused with its size and bustle .
He envied every busy boy he saw .
Back in Upton he had sometimes resented the fact that he was kept working continually and was seldom allowed an hour off .
Now he was burdened with spare time .
It certainly did not seem as if things were fairly divided , he thought .
And then he thought no more just then , for one of the queer spells in his head came on .
He had experienced them at intervals during the last three days .
Something seemed to break loose in his head and spin wildly round and round , while houses and people and trees danced and wobbled all about him .
Chester vaguely wondered if this could be what Aunt Harriet had been wont to call a `` judgement . ''
But then , he had done nothing very bad -- nothing that would warrant a judgement , he thought .
It was surely no harm to run away from a place where you were treated so bad and where they did not seem to want you .
Chester felt bitter whenever he thought of Aunt Harriet .
Presently he found himself in the market square of Montrose .
It was market day , and the place was thronged with people from the surrounding country settlements .
Chester had hoped that he might pick up a few cents , holding a horse or cow for somebody or carrying a market basket , but no such chance offered itself .
He climbed up on some bales of pressed hay in one corner and sat there moodily ; there was dejection in the very dangle of his legs over the bales .
Chester , you see , was discovering what many a boy before him has discovered -- that it is a good deal easier to sit down and make a fortune in dreams than it is to go out into the world and make it .
Two men were talking to each other near him .
At first Chester gave no heed to their conversation , but presently a sentence made him prick up his ears .
`` Yes , there 's a pretty fair crop out at Hopedale , '' one man was saying , `` but whether it 's going to be got in in good shape is another matter .
It 's terrible hard to get any help .
Every spare man-jack far and wide has gone West on them everlasting harvest excursions .
Salome Whitney at the Mount Hope Farm is in a predicament .
She 's got a hired man , but he can't harvest grain all by himself .
She spent the whole of yesterday driving around , trying to get a couple of men or boys to help him , but I dunno if she got anyone or not . ''
The men moved out of earshot at this juncture , but Chester got down from the bales with a determined look .
If workers were wanted in Hopedale , that was the place for him .
He had done a man 's work at harvest time in Upton the year before .
Lige Barton had said so himself .
Hope and courage returned with a rush .
He accosted the first man he met and asked if he could tell him the way to Hopedale .
`` Reckon I can , sonny .
I live in the next district .
Want to go there ?
If you wait till evening , I can give you a lift part of the way .
It 's five miles out . ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Chester firmly , `` but I must go at once if you'll kindly direct me .
It 's important . ''
`` Well , it 's a straight road .
That 's Albemarle Street down there -- follow it till it takes you out to the country , and then keep straight on till you come to a church painted yellow and white .
Turn to your right , and over the hill is Hopedale .
But you 'd better wait for me .
You don't look fit to walk five miles . ''
But Chester was off .
Walk five miles !
Pooh !
He could walk twenty with hope to lure him on .
Albemarle Street finally frayed off into a real country road .
Chester was glad to find himself out in the country once more , with the great golden fields basking on either side and the wooded hills beyond , purple with haze .
He had grown to hate the town with its cold , unheeding faces .
It was good to breathe clear air again and feel the soft , springy soil of the ferny roadside under his tired little feet .
Long before the five miles were covered , Chester began to wonder if he would hold out to the end of them .
He had to stop and rest frequently , when those queer dizzy spells came on .
His feet seemed like lead .
But he kept doggedly on .
He would not give in now !
The white and yellow church was the most welcome sight that had ever met his eyes .
Over the hill he met a man and inquired the way to Mount Hope Farm .
Fortunately , it was nearby .
At the gate Chester had to stop again to recover from his dizziness .
He liked the look of the place , with its great , comfortable barns and quaint , roomy old farmhouse , all set down in a trim quadrangle of beeches and orchards .
There was an appearance of peace and prosperity about it .
If only Miss Salome Whitney will hire me !
thought Chester wistfully , as he crept up the slope .
I 'm afraid she'll say I 'm too small .
Wisht I could stretch three inches all at once .
Wisht I wasn't so dizzy .
Wisht -- What Chester 's third wish was will never be known , for just as he reached the kitchen door the worst dizzy spell of all came on .
Trees , barns , well-sweep , all whirled around him with the speed of wind .
He reeled and fell , a limp , helpless little body , on Miss Salome Whitney 's broad , spotless sandstone doorstep .
* * * * * In the Mount Hope kitchen Miss Salome was at that moment deep in discussion with her `` help '' over the weighty question of how the damsons were to be preserved .
Miss Salome wanted them boiled ; Clemantiny Bosworth , the help , insisted that they ought to be baked .
Clemantiny was always very positive .
She had `` bossed '' Miss Salome for years , and both knew that in the end the damsons would be baked , but the argument had to be carried out for dignity 's sake .
`` They 're so sour when they 're baked , '' protested Miss Salome .
`` Well , you don't want damsons sweet , do you ? ''
retorted Clemantiny scornfully .
`` That 's the beauty of damsons -- their tartness .
And they keep ever so much better baked , Salome -- you know they do .
My grandmother always baked hers , and they would keep for three years . ''
Miss Salome knew that when Clemantiny dragged her grandmother into the question , it was time to surrender .
Beyond that , dignity degenerated into stubbornness .
It would be useless to say that she did not want to keep her damsons for three years , and that she was content to eat them up and trust to Providence for the next year 's supply .
`` Well , well , bake them then , '' she said placidly .
`` I don't suppose it makes much difference one way or another .
Only , I insist -- what was that noise , Clemantiny ?
It sounded like something falling against the porch door . ''
`` It 's that worthless dog of Martin 's , I suppose , '' said Clemantiny , grasping a broom handle with a grimness that boded ill for the dog .
`` Mussing up my clean doorstep with his dirty paws again .
I'll fix him ! ''
Clemantiny swept out through the porch and jerked open the door .
There was a moment 's silence .
Then Miss Salome heard her say , `` For the land 's sake !
Salome Whitney , come here . ''
What Miss Salome saw when she hurried out was a white-faced boy stretched on the doorstep at Clemantiny 's feet .
`` Is he dead ? ''
she gasped .
`` Dead ?
No , '' sniffed Clemantiny .
`` He 's fainted , that 's what he is .
Where on earth did he come from ?
He ain't a Hopedale boy . ''
`` He must be carried right in , '' exclaimed Miss Salome in distress .
`` Why , he may die there .
He must be very ill . ''
`` Looks more to me as if he had fainted from sheer starvation , '' returned Clemantiny brusquely as she picked him up in her lean , muscular arms .
`` Why , he 's skin and bone .
He ain't hardly heavier than a baby .
Well , this is a mysterious piece of work .
Where 'll I put him ? ''
`` Lay him on the sofa , '' said Miss Salome as soon as she had recovered from the horror into which Clemantiny 's starvation dictum had thrown her .
A child starving to death on her doorstep !
`` What do you do for people in a faint , Clemantiny ? ''
`` Wet their face -- and hist up their feet -- and loosen their collar , '' said Clemantiny in a succession of jerks , doing each thing as she mentioned it .
`` And hold ammonia to their nose .
Run for the ammonia , Salome .
Look , will you ?
Skin and bone ! ''
But Miss Salome had gone for the ammonia .
There was a look on the boy 's thin , pallid face that tugged painfully at her heart-strings .
When Chester came back to consciousness with the pungency of the ammonia reeking through his head , he found himself lying on very soft pillows in a very big white sunny kitchen , where everything was scoured to a brightness that dazzled you .
Bending over him was a tall , gaunt woman with a thin , determined face and snapping black eyes , and , standing beside her with a steaming bowl in her hand , was the nice rosy lady who had given him the taffy on the boat !
When he opened his eyes , Miss Salome knew him .
`` Why , it 's the little boy I saw on the boat ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` Well , you've come to ! ''
said Clemantiny , eyeing Chester severely .
`` And now perhaps you'll explain what you mean by fainting away on doorsteps and scaring people out of their senses . ''
Chester thought that this must be the mistress of Mount Hope Farm , and hastened to propitiate her .
`` I 'm sorry , '' he faltered feebly .
`` I didn't mean to -- I -- '' `` You 're not to do any talking until you've had something to eat , '' snapped Clemantiny inconsistently .
`` Here , open your mouth and take this broth .
Pretty doings , I say ! ''
Clemantiny spoke as sharply as Aunt Harriet had ever done , but somehow or other Chester did not feel afraid of her and her black eyes .
She sat down by his side and fed him from the bowl of hot broth with a deft gentleness oddly in contrast with her grim expression .
Chester thought he had never in all his life tasted anything so good as that broth .
The boy was really almost starved .
He drank every drop of it .
Clemantiny gave a grunt of satisfaction as she handed the empty bowl and spoon to the silent , smiling Miss Salome .
`` Now , who are you and what do you want ? ''
she said .
Chester had been expecting this question , and while coming along the Hopedale road he had thought out an answer to it .
He began now , speaking the words slowly and gaspingly , as if reciting a hastily learned lesson .
`` My name is Chester Benson .
I belong to Upton up the country .
My folks are dead and I came to Montrose to look for work , I've been there a week and couldn't get anything to do .
I heard a man say that you wanted men to help in the harvest , so I came out to see if you 'd hire me . ''
In spite of his weakness , Chester 's face turned very red before he got to the end of his speech .
He was new to deception .
To be sure , there was not , strictly speaking , an untrue word in it .
As for his name , it was Chester Benson Stephens .
But for all that , Chester could not have felt or looked more guilty if he had been telling an out-and-out falsehood at every breath .
`` Humph ! ''
said Clemantiny in a dissatisfied tone .
`` What on earth do you suppose a midget like you can do in the harvest field ?
And we don't want any more help , anyway .
we've got enough . ''
Chester grew sick with disappointment .
But at this moment Miss Salome spoke up .
`` No , we haven't , Clemantiny .
We want another hand , and I'll hire you , Chester -- that 's your name , isn't it ?
I'll give you good wages , too . ''
`` Now , Salome ! ''
protested Clemantiny .
But Miss Salome only said , `` I've made up my mind , Clemantiny . ''
Clemantiny knew that when Miss Salome did make up her mind and announced it in that very quiet , very unmistakable tone , she was mistress of the situation and intended to remain so .
`` Oh , very well , '' she retorted .
`` you'll please yourself , Salome , of course .
I think it would be wiser to wait until you found out a little more about him . ''
`` And have him starving on people 's doorsteps in the meantime ? ''
questioned Miss Salome severely .
`` Well , '' returned Clemantiny with the air of one who washes her hands of a doubtful proposition , `` don't blame me if you repent of it . ''
By this time Chester had grasped the wonderful fact that his troubles were ended -- for a while , at least .
He raised himself up on one arm and looked gratefully at Miss Salome .
`` Thank you , '' he said .
`` I'll work hard .
I 'm used to doing a lot . ''
`` There , there ! ''
said Miss Salome , patting his shoulder gently .
`` Lie down and rest .
Dinner will be ready soon , and I guess you'll be ready for it . ''
To Clemantiny she added in a low , gentle tone , `` There 's a look on his face that reminded me of Johnny .
It came out so strong when he sat up just now that it made me feel like crying .
don't you notice it , Clemantiny ? ''
`` can't say that I do , '' replied that energetic person , who was flying about the kitchen with a speed that made Chester 's head dizzy trying to follow her with his eyes .
`` All I can see is freckles and bones -- but if you 're satisfied , I am .
For law 's sake , don't fluster me , Salome .
There 's a hundred and one things to be done out of hand .
This frolic has clean dundered the whole forenoon 's work . ''
After dinner Chester decided that it was time to make himself useful .
`` can't I go right to work now ? ''
he asked .
`` We don't begin harvest till tomorrow , '' said Miss Salome .
`` You 'd better rest this afternoon . ''
`` Oh , I 'm all right now , '' insisted Chester .
`` I feel fine .
Please give me something to do . ''
`` You can go out and cut me some wood for my afternoon 's baking , '' said Clemantiny .
`` And see you cut it short enough .
Any other boy that 's tried always gets it about two inches too long . ''
When he had gone out , she said scornfully to Miss Salome , `` Well , what do you expect that size to accomplish in a harvest field , Salome Whitney ? ''
`` Not very much , perhaps , '' said Miss Salome mildly .
`` But what could I do ?
You wouldn't have me turn the child adrift on the world again , would you , Clemantiny ? ''
Clemantiny did not choose to answer this appeal .
She rattled her dishes noisily into the dishpan .
`` Well , where are you going to put him to sleep ? ''
she demanded .
`` The hands you've got will fill the kitchen chamber .
There 's only the spare room left .
you'll hardly put him there , I suppose ?
Your philanthropy will hardly lead you as far as that . ''
When Clemantiny employed big words and sarcasm at the same time , the effect was tremendous .
But Miss Salome didn't wilt .
`` What makes you so prejudiced against him ? ''
she asked curiously .
`` I 'm not prejudiced against him .
But that story about himself didn't ring true .
I worked in Upton years ago , and there weren't any Bensons there then .
There 's more behind that he hasn't told .
I 'd find out what it was before I took him into my house , that 's all .
But I 'm not prejudiced . ''
`` Well , well , '' said Miss Salome soothingly , `` we must do the best we can for him .
It 's a sort of duty .
And as for a room for him -- why , I'll put him in Johnny 's . ''
Clemantiny opened her mouth and shut it again .
She understood that it would be a waste of breath to say anything more .
If Miss Salome had made up her mind to put this freckled , determined-looking waif , dropped on her doorstep from heaven knew where , into Johnny 's room , that was an end of the matter .
`` But I'll not be surprised at anything after this , '' she muttered as she carried her dishes into the pantry .
`` First a skinny little urchin goes and faints on her doorstep .
Then she hires him and puts him in Johnny 's room .
Johnny 's room !
Salome Whitney , what do you mean ? ''
Perhaps Miss Salome hardly knew what she meant .
But somehow her heart went out warmly to this boy .
In spite of Clemantiny 's sniffs , she held to the opinion that he looked like Johnny .
Johnny was a little nephew of hers .
She had taken him to bring up when his parents died , and she had loved him very dearly .
He had died four years ago , and since that time the little front room over the front porch had never been occupied .
It was just as Johnny had left it .
Beyond keeping it scrupulously clean , Miss Salome never allowed it to be disturbed .
And now a somewhat ragged lad from nowhere was to be put into it !
No wonder Clemantiny shook her head when Miss Salome went up to air it .
* * * * * Even Clemantiny had to admit that Chester was willing to work .
He split wood until she called him to stop .
Then he carried in the wood-box full , and piled it so neatly that even the grim handmaiden was pleased .
After that , she sent him to the garden to pick the early beans .
In the evening he milked three cows and did all the chores , falling into the ways of the place with a deft adaptability that went far to soften Clemantiny 's heart .
`` He 's been taught to work somewheres , '' she admitted grudgingly , `` and he 's real polite and respectful .
But he looks too cute by half .
And his name isn't Benson any more than mine .
When I called him ` Chester Benson ' out there in the cow-yard , he stared at me fer half a minute ` sif I 'd called him Nebuchadnezzar . ''
When bedtime came , Miss Salome took Chester up to a room whose whiteness and daintiness quite took away the breath of a lad who had been used to sleeping in garrets or hired men 's kitchen chambers all his life .
Later on Miss Salome came in to see if he was comfortable , and stood , with her candle in her hand , looking down very kindly at the thin , shrewd little face on the pillow .
`` I hope you'll sleep real well here , Chester , '' she said .
`` I had a little boy once who used to sleep here .
You -- you look like him .
Good night . ''
She bent over him and kissed his forehead .
Chester had never been kissed by anyone before , so far as he could remember .
Something came up in his throat that felt about as big as a pumpkin .
At the same moment he wished he could have told Miss Salome the whole truth about himself .
I might tell her in the morning , he thought , as he watched her figure passing out of the little porch chamber .
But on second thought he decided that this would never do .
He felt sure she would disapprove of his running away , and would probably insist upon his going straight back to Upton or , at least , informing Aunt Harriet of his whereabouts .
No , he could not tell her .
Clemantiny was an early riser , but when she came into the kitchen the next morning the fire was already made and Chester was out in the yard with three of the five cows milked .
`` Humph ! ''
said Clemantiny amiably .
`` New brooms sweep clean . ''
But she gave him cream with his porridge that morning .
Generally , all Miss Salome 's hired hands got from Clemantiny was skim milk .
Miss Salome 's regular hired man lived in a little house down in the hollow .
He soon turned up , and the other two men she had hired for harvest also arrived .
Martin , the man , looked Chester over quizzically .
`` What do you think you can do , sonny ? ''
`` Anything , '' said Chester sturdily .
`` I 'm used to work . ''
`` He 's right , '' whispered Clemantiny aside .
`` He 's smart as a steel trap .
But just you keep an eye on him all the same , Martin . ''
Chester soon proved his mettle in the harvest field .
In the brisk three weeks that followed , even Clemantiny had to admit that he earned every cent of his wages .
His active feet were untiring and his wiry arms could pitch and stock with the best .
When the day 's work was ended , he brought in wood and water for Clemantiny , helped milk the cows , gathered the eggs , and made on his own responsibility a round of barns and outhouses to make sure that everything was snug and tight for the night .
`` Freckles-and-Bones has been well trained somewhere , '' said Clemantiny again .
It was hardly fair to put the bones in now , for Chester was growing plump and hearty .
He had never been so happy in his life .
Upton drudgery and that dreadful week in Montrose seemed like a bad dream .
Here , in the golden meadows of Mount Hope Farm , he worked with a right good will .
The men liked him , and he soon became a favourite with them .
Even Clemantiny relented somewhat .
To be sure , she continued very grim , and still threw her words at him as if they were so many missiles warranted to strike home .
But Chester soon learned that Clemantiny 's bark was worse than her bite .
She was really very good to him and fed him lavishly .
But she declared that this was only to put some flesh on him .
`` It offends me to see bones sticking through anybody 's skin like that .
We aren't used to such objects at Mount Hope Farm , thank goodness .
Yes , you may smile , Salome .
I like him well enough , and I'll admit that he knows how to make himself useful , but I don't trust him any more than ever I did .
He 's mighty close about his past life .
You can't get any more out of him than juice out of a post .
I've tried , and I know . ''
But it was Miss Salome who had won Chester 's whole heart .
He had never loved anybody in his hard little life before .
He loved her with an almost dog-like devotion .
He forgot that he was working to earn money -- and make his fortune .
He worked to please Miss Salome .
She was good and kind and gentle to him , and his starved heart thawed and expanded in the sunshine of her atmosphere .
She went to the little porch room every night to kiss him good night .
Chester would have been bitterly disappointed if she had failed to go .
She was greatly shocked to find out that he had never said his prayers before going to bed .
She insisted on teaching him the simple little one she had used herself when a child .
When Chester found that it would please her , he said it every night .
There was nothing he would not have done for Miss Salome .
She talked a good deal to him about Johnny and she gave him the jack-knife that Johnny had owned .
`` It belonged to a good , manly little boy once , '' she said , `` and now I hope it belongs to another such . ''
`` I ain't very good , '' said Chester repentantly , `` but I'll try to be , Miss Salome -- honest , I will . ''
One day he heard Miss Salome speaking of someone who had run away from home .
`` A wicked , ungrateful boy , '' she called him .
Chester blushed until his freckles were drowned out in a sea of red , and Clemantiny saw it , of course .
When did anything ever escape those merciless black eyes of Clemantiny 's ?
`` Do you think it 's always wrong for a fellow to run away , Miss Salome ? ''
he faltered .
`` It can't ever be right , '' said Miss Salome decidedly .
`` But if he wasn't treated well -- and was jawed at -- and not let go to school ? ''
pleaded Chester .
Clemantiny gave Miss Salome a look as of one who would say , You 're bat-blind if you can't read between the lines of that ; but Miss Salome was placidly unconscious .
She was not really thinking of the subject at all , and did not guess that Chester meant anything more than generalities .
`` Not even then , '' she said firmly .
`` Nothing can justify a boy for running away -- especially as Jarvis Colemen did -- never even left a word behind him to say where he 'd gone .
His aunt thought he 'd fallen into the river . ''
`` don't suppose she would have grieved much if he had , '' said Clemantiny sarcastically , all the while watching Chester , until he felt as if she were boring into his very soul and reading all his past life .
When the harvest season drew to a close , dismay crept into the soul of our hero .
Where would he go now ?
He hated to think of leaving Mount Hope Farm and Miss Salome .
He would have been content to stay there and work as hard as he had ever worked at Upton , merely for the roof over his head and the food he ate .
The making of a fortune seemed a small thing compared to the privilege of being near Miss Salome .
`` But I suppose I must just up and go , '' he muttered dolefully .
One day Miss Salome had a conference with Clemantiny .
At the end of it the latter said , `` Do as you please , '' in the tone she might have used to a spoiled child .
`` But if you 'd take my advice -- which you won't and never do -- you 'd write to somebody in Upton and make inquiries about him first .
What he says is all very well and he sticks to it marvellous , and there 's no tripping him up .
But there 's something behind , Salome Whitney -- mark my words , there 's something behind . ''
`` He looks so like Johnny , '' said Miss Salome wistfully .
`` And I suppose you think that covers a multitude of sins , '' said Clemantiny contemptuously .
* * * * * On the day when the last load of rustling golden sheaves was carried into the big barn and stowed away in the dusty loft , Miss Salome called Chester into the kitchen .
Chester 's heart sank as he obeyed the summons .
His time was up , and now he was to be paid his wages and sent away .
To be sure , Martin had told him that morning that a man in East Hopedale wanted a boy for a spell , and that he , Martin , would see that he got the place if he wanted it .
But that did not reconcile him to leaving Mount Hope Farm .
Miss Salome was sitting in her favourite sunny corner of the kitchen and Clemantiny was flying around with double briskness .
The latter 's thin lips were tightly set and disapproval was writ large in every flutter of her calico skirts .
`` Chester , '' said Miss Salome kindly , `` your time is up today . ''
Chester nodded .
For a moment he felt as he had felt when he left the provision store in Montrose .
But he would not let Clemantiny see him cry .
Somehow , he would not have minded Miss Salome .
`` What are you thinking of doing now ? ''
Miss Salome went on .
`` There 's a man at East Hopedale wants a boy , '' said Chester , `` and Martin says he thinks I'll suit . ''
`` That is Jonas Smallman , '' said Miss Salome thoughtfully .
`` He has the name of being a hard master .
It isn't right of me to say so , perhaps .
I really don't know much about him .
But wouldn't you rather stay here with me for the winter , Chester ? ''
`` Ma'am ?
Miss Salome ? ''
stammered Chester .
He heard Clemantiny give a snort behind him and mutter , `` Clean infatuated -- clean infatuated , '' without in the least knowing what she meant .
`` We really need a chore boy all the year round , '' said Miss Salome .
`` Martin has all he can do with the heavy work .
And there are the apples to be picked .
If you care to stay , you shall have your board and clothes for doing the odd jobs , and you can go to school all winter .
In the spring we will see what need be done then . ''
If he would care to stay !
Chester could have laughed aloud .
His eyes were shining with joy as he replied , `` Oh , Miss Salome , I'll be so glad to stay !
I -- I -- didn't want to go away .
I'll try to do everything you want me to do .
I'll work ever so hard . ''
`` Humph ! ''
This , of course , was from Clemantiny , as she set a pan of apples on the stove with an emphatic thud .
`` Nobody ever doubted your willingness to work .
Pity everything else about you isn't as satisfactory . ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
said Miss Salome rebukingly .
She put her arms about Chester and drew him to her .
`` Then it is all settled , Chester .
You are my boy now , and of course I shall expect you to be a good boy . ''
If ever a boy was determined to be good , that boy was Chester .
That day was the beginning of a new life for him .
He began to go to the Hopedale school the next week .
Miss Salome gave him all Johnny 's old school books and took an eager interest in his studies .
Chester ought to have been very happy , and at first he was ; but as the bright , mellow days of autumn passed by , a shadow came over his happiness .
He could not help thinking that he had really deceived Miss Salome , and was deceiving her still -- Miss Salome , who had such confidence in him .
He was not what he pretended to be .
And as for his running away , he felt sure that Miss Salome would view that with horror .
As the time passed by and he learned more and more what a high standard of honour and truth she had , he felt more and more ashamed of himself .
When she looked at him with her clear , trustful , blue eyes , Chester felt as guilty as if he had systematically deceived her with intent to do harm .
He began to wish that he had the courage to tell her the whole truth about himself .
Moreover , he began to think that perhaps he had not done right , after all , in running away from Aunt Harriet .
In Miss Salome 's code nothing could be right that was underhanded , and Chester was very swiftly coming to look at things through Miss Salome 's eyes .
He felt sure that Johnny would never have acted as he had , and if Chester now had one dear ambition on earth , it was to be as good and manly a fellow as Johnny must have been .
But he could never be that as long as he kept the truth about himself from Miss Salome .
`` That boy has got something on his mind , '' said the terrible Clemantiny , who , Chester felt convinced , could see through a stone wall .
`` Nonsense !
What could he have on his mind ? ''
said Miss Salome .
But she said it a little anxiously .
She , too , had noticed Chester 's absent ways and abstracted face .
`` Goodness me , I don't know !
I don't suppose he has robbed a bank or murdered anybody .
But he is worrying over something , as plain as plain . ''
`` He is getting on very well at school , '' said Miss Salome .
`` His teacher says so , and he is very eager to learn .
I don't know what can be troubling him . ''
She was fated not to know for a fortnight longer .
During that time Chester fought out his struggle with himself , and conquered .
He must tell Miss Salome , he decided , with a long sigh .
He knew that it would mean going back to Upton and Aunt Harriet and the old , hard life , but he would not sail under false colours any longer .
* * * * * Chester went into the kitchen one afternoon when he came home from school , with his lips set and his jaws even squarer than usual .
Miss Salome was making some of her famous taffy , and Clemantiny was spinning yarn on the big wheel .
`` Miss Salome , '' said Chester desperately , `` if you 're not too busy , there is something I 'd like to tell you . ''
`` What is it ? ''
asked Miss Salome good-humouredly , turning to him with her spoon poised in midair over her granite saucepan .
`` It 's about myself .
I -- I -- oh , Miss Salome , I didn't tell you the truth about myself .
I've got to tell it now .
My name isn't Benson -- exactly -- and I ran away from home . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
said Miss Salome mildly .
She dropped her spoon , handle and all , into the taffy and never noticed it .
`` Dear me , Chester ! ''
`` I knew it , '' said Clemantiny triumphantly .
`` I knew it -- and I always said it .
Run away , did you ? ''
`` Yes 'm .
My name is Chester Benson Stephens , and I lived at Upton with Aunt Harriet Elwell .
But she ain't any relation to me , really .
She 's only father 's stepsister .
She -- she -- wasn't kind to me and she wouldn't let me go to school -- so I ran away . ''
`` But , dear me , Chester , didn't you know that was very wrong ? ''
said Miss Salome in bewilderment .
`` No 'm -- I didn't know it then .
I've been thinking lately that maybe it was .
I 'm -- I 'm real sorry . ''
`` What did you say your real name was ? ''
demanded Clemantiny .
`` Stephens , ma'am . ''
`` And your mother 's name before she was married ? ''
`` Mary Morrow , '' said Chester , wondering what upon earth Clemantiny meant .
Clemantiny turned to Miss Salome with an air of surrendering a dearly cherished opinion .
`` Well , ma'am , I guess you must be right about his looking like Johnny .
I must say I never could see the resemblance , but it may well be there , for he -- that very fellow there -- and Johnny are first cousins .
Their mothers were sisters ! ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
exclaimed Miss Salome .
`` You may well say ` Clemantiny . '
Such a coincidence !
It doesn't make you and him any relation , of course -- the cousinship is on the mother 's side .
But it 's there .
Mary Morrow was born and brought up in Hopedale .
She went to Upton when I did , and married Oliver Stephens there .
Why , I knew his father as well as I know you . ''
`` This is wonderful , '' said Miss Salome .
Then she added sorrowfully , `` But it doesn't make your running away right , Chester . ''
`` Tell us all about it , '' demanded Clemantiny , sitting down on the wood-box .
`` Sit down , boy , sit down -- don't stand there looking as if you were on trial for your life .
Tell us all about it . ''
Thus adjured , Chester sat down and told them all about it -- his moonlight flitting and his adventures in Montrose .
Miss Salome exclaimed with horror over the fact of his sleeping in a pile of lumber for seven nights , but Clemantiny listened in silence , never taking her eyes from the boy 's pale face .
When Chester finished , she nodded .
`` we've got it all now .
There 's nothing more behind , Salome .
It would have been better for you to have told as straight a story at first , young man . ''
Chester knew that , but , having no reply to make , made none .
Miss Salome looked at him wistfully .
`` But , with it all , you didn't do right to run away , Chester , '' she said firmly .
`` I dare say your aunt was severe with you -- but two wrongs never make a right , you know . ''
`` No 'm , '' said Chester .
`` You must go back to your aunt , '' continued Miss Salome sadly .
Chester nodded .
He knew this , but he could not trust himself to speak .
Then did Clemantiny arise in her righteous indignation .
`` Well , I never heard of such nonsense , Salome Whitney !
What on earth do you want to send him back for ?
I knew Harriet Elwell years ago , and if she 's still what she was then , it ain't much wonder Chester ran away from her .
I 'd say ` run , ' too .
Go back , indeed !
You keep him right here , as you should , and let Harriet Elwell look somewhere else for somebody to scold ! ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
expostulated Miss Salome .
`` Oh , I must and will speak my mind , Salome .
There 's no one else to take Chester 's part , it seems .
You have as much claim on him as Harriet Elwell has .
She ain't any real relation to him any more than you are . ''
Miss Salome looked troubled .
Perhaps there was something in Clemantiny 's argument .
And she hated to think of seeing Chester go .
He looked more like Johnny than ever , as he stood there with his flushed face and wistful eyes .
`` Chester , '' she said gravely , `` I leave it to you to decide .
If you think you ought to go back to your aunt , well and good .
If not , you shall stay here . ''
This was the hardest yet .
Chester wished she had not left the decision to him .
It was like cutting off his own hand .
But he spoke up manfully .
`` I -- I think I ought to go back , Miss Salome , and I want to pay back the money , too . ''
`` I think so , too , Chester , although I 'm sorry as sorry can be .
I'll go back to Upton with you .
we'll start tomorrow .
If , when we get there , your aunt is willing to let you stay with me , you can come back . ''
`` There 's a big chance of that ! ''
said Clemantiny sourly .
`` A woman 's likely to give up a boy like Chester -- a good , steady worker and as respectful and obliging as there is between this and sunset -- very likely , isn't she !
Well , this taffy is all burnt to the saucepan and clean ruined -- but what 's the odds !
All I hope , Salome Whitney , is that the next time you adopt a boy and let him twine himself ` round a person 's heart , you'll make sure first that you are going to stick to it .
I don't like having my affections torn up by the roots . ''
Clemantiny seized the saucepan and disappeared with it into the pantry amid a whirl of pungent smoke .
Mount Hope Farm was a strangely dismal place that night .
Miss Salome sighed heavily and often as she made her preparations for the morrow 's journey .
Clemantiny stalked about with her grim face grimmer than ever .
As for Chester , when he went to bed that night in the little porch chamber , he cried heartily into his pillows .
He didn't care for pride any longer ; he just cried and didn't even pretend he wasn't crying when Miss Salome came in to sit by him a little while and talk to him .
That talk comforted Chester .
He realized that , come what might , he would always have a good friend in Miss Salome -- aye , and in Clemantiny , too .
Chester never knew it , but after he had fallen asleep , with the tears still glistening on his brown cheeks , Clemantiny tiptoed silently in with a candle in her hand and bent over him with an expression of almost maternal tenderness on her face .
It was late and an aroma of boiling sugar hung about her .
She had sat up long after Miss Salome was abed , to boil another saucepan of taffy for Chester to eat on his journey .
`` Poor , dear child ! ''
she said , softly touching one of his crisp curls .
`` It 's a shame in Salome to insist on his going back .
She doesn't know what she 's sending him to , or she wouldn't .
He didn't say much against his aunt , and Salome thinks she was only just a little bit cranky .
But I could guess . ''
Early in the morning Miss Salome and Chester started .
They were to drive to Montrose , leave their team there and take the boat for Belltown .
Chester bade farewell to the porch chamber and the long , white kitchen and the friendly barns with a full heart .
When he climbed into the wagon , Clemantiny put a big bagful of taffy into his hands .
`` Good-by , Chester , '' she said .
`` And remember , you've always got a friend in me , anyhow . ''
Then Clemantiny went back into the kitchen and cried -- good , rough-spoken , tender-hearted Clemantiny sat down and cried .
It was an ideal day for travelling -- crisp , clear and sunny -- but neither Chester nor Miss Salome was in a mood for enjoyment .
Back over Chester 's runaway route they went , and reached Belltown on the boat that evening .
They stayed in Belltown overnight and in the morning took the train to Roxbury Station .
Here Miss Salome hired a team from the storekeeper and drove out to Upton .
Chester felt his heart sink as they drove into the Elwell yard .
How well he knew it !
Miss Salome tied her hired nag to the gatepost and took Chester by the hand .
They went to the door and knocked .
It was opened with a jerk and Mrs. Elwell stood before them .
She had probably seen them from the window , for she uttered no word of surprise at seeing Chester again .
Indeed , she said nothing at all , but only stood rigidly before them .
Dear me , what a disagreeable-looking woman !
thought Miss Salome .
But she said courteously , `` Are you Mrs. Elwell ? ''
`` I am , '' said that lady forbiddingly .
`` I've brought your nephew home , '' continued Miss Salome , laying her hand encouragingly on Chester 's shrinking shoulder .
`` I have had him hired for some time on my farm at Hopedale , but I didn't know until yesterday that he had run away from you .
When he told me about it , I thought he ought to come straight back and return your four dollars , and so did he .
So I have brought him . ''
`` You might have saved yourself the trouble then ! ''
cried Mrs. Elwell shrilly .
Her black eyes flashed with anger .
`` I 'm done with him and don't want the money .
Run away when there was work to do , and thinks he can come back now that it 's all done and loaf all winter , does he ?
He shall never enter my house again . ''
`` That he shall not ! ''
cried Miss Salome , at last finding her tongue .
Her gentle nature was grievously stirred by the heartlessness shown in the face and voice of Mrs. Elwell .
`` That he shall not ! ''
she cried again .
`` But he shall not want for a home as long as I have one to give him .
Come , Chester , we'll go home . ''
`` I wish you well of him , '' Mrs. Elwell said sarcastically .
Miss Salome already repented her angry retort .
She was afraid she had been undignified , but she wished for a moment that Clemantiny was there .
Wicked as she feared it was , Miss Salome thought she could have enjoyed a tilt between her ancient handmaid and Mrs. Elwell .
`` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Elwell , if I have used any intemperate expressions , '' she said with great dignity .
`` You provoked me more than was becoming by your remarks .
I wish you good morning . ''
Mrs. Elwell slammed the door shut .
With her cheeks even more than usually rosy , Miss Salome led Chester down to the gate , untied her horse and drove out of the yard .
Not until they reached the main road did she trust herself to speak to the dazed lad beside her .
`` What a disagreeable women ! ''
she ejaculated at last .
`` I don't wonder you ran away , Chester -- I don't , indeed !
Though , mind you , I don't think it was right , for all that .
But I 'm gladder than words can say that she wouldn't take you back .
You are mine now , and you will stay mine .
I want you to call me Aunt Salome after this .
Get up , horse !
If we can catch that train at Roxbury , we'll be home by night yet . ''
Chester was too happy to speak .
He had never felt so glad and grateful in his life before .
They got home that night just as the sun was setting redly behind the great maples on the western hill .
As they drove into the yard , Clemantiny 's face appeared , gazing at them over the high board fence of the cow-yard .
Chester waved his hand at her gleefully .
`` Lawful heart ! ''
said Clemantiny .
She set down her pail and came out to the lane on a run .
She caught Chester as he sprang from the wagon and gave him a hearty hug .
`` I 'm glad clean down to my boot soles to see you back again , '' she said .
`` He 's back for good , '' said Miss Salome .
`` Chester , you 'd better go in and study up your lessons for tomorrow . ''
