Winslow had been fishing -- or pretending to -- all the morning , and he was desperately thirsty .
He boarded with the Beckwiths on the Riverside East Shore , but he was nearer Riverside West , and he knew the Penningtons well .
He had often been there for bait and milk and had listened times out of mind to Mrs. Pennington's dismal tales of her tribulations with hired girls .
She never could get along with them , and they left , on an average , after a fortnight's trial .
She was on the lookout for one now , he knew , and would likely be cross , but he thought she would give him a drink .
He rowed his skiff into the shore and tied it to a fir that hung out from the bank .
A winding little footpath led up to the Pennington farmhouse , which crested the hill about three hundred yards from the shore .
Winslow made for the kitchen door and came face to face with a girl carrying a pail of water -- Mrs. Pennington's latest thing in hired girls , of course .
Winslow's first bewildered thought was `` What a goddess ! ''
and he wondered , as he politely asked for a drink , where on earth Mrs. Pennington had picked her up .
She handed him a shining dipper half full and stood , pail in hand , while he drank it .
She was rather tall , and wore a somewhat limp , faded print gown , and a big sunhat , beneath which a glossy knot of chestnut showed itself .
Her skin was very fair , somewhat freckled , and her mouth was delicious .
As for her eyes , they were grey , but beyond that simply defied description .
`` Will you have some more ? ''
she asked in a soft , drawling voice .
`` No , thank you .
That was delicious .
Is Mrs. Pennington home ? ''
`` No .
She has gone away for the day . ''
`` Well , I suppose I can sit down here and rest a while .
You've no serious objections , have you ? ''
`` Oh , no . ''
She carried her pail into the kitchen and came out again presently with a knife and a pan of apples .
Sitting down on a bench under the poplars she proceeded to peel them with a disregard of his presence that piqued Winslow , who was not used to being ignored in this fashion .
Besides , as a general rule , he had been quite good friends with Mrs. Pennington's hired girls .
She had had three strapping damsels during his sojourn in Riverside , and he used to sit on this very doorstep and chaff them .
They had all been saucy and talkative .
This girl was evidently a new species .
`` Do you think you'll get along with Mrs. Pennington ? ''
he asked finally .
`` As a rule she fights with her help , although she is a most estimable woman . ''
The girl smiled quite broadly .
`` I guess p ` r ` aps she's rather hard to suit , '' was the answer , `` but I like her pretty well so far .
I think we'll get along with each other .
If we don't I can leave -- like the others did . ''
`` What is your name ? ''
`` Nelly Ray . ''
`` Well , Nelly , I hope you'll be able to keep your place .
Let me give you a bit of friendly advice .
Don't let the cats get into the pantry .
That is what Mrs. Pennington has quarrelled with nearly every one of her girls about . ''
`` It is quite a bother to keep them out , ain't it ? ''
said Nelly calmly .
`` There's dozens of cats about the place .
What on earth makes them keep so many ? ''
`` Mr. Pennington has a mania for cats .
He and Mrs. Pennington have a standing disagreement about it .
The last girl left here because she couldn't stand the cats ; they affected her nerves , she said .
I hope you don't mind them . ''
`` Oh , no ; I kind of like cats .
I've been tryin ' to count them .
Has anyone ever done that ? ''
`` Not that I know of .
I tried but I had to give up in despair -- never could tell when I was counting the same cat over again .
Look at that black goblin sunning himself on the woodpile .
I say , Nelly , you 're not going , are you ? ''
`` I must .
It's time to get dinner .
Mr. Pennington will be in from the fields soon . ''
The next minute he heard her stepping briskly about the kitchen , shooing out intruding cats , and humming a darky air to herself .
He went reluctantly back to the shore and rowed across the river in a brown study .
I don't know whether Winslow was afflicted with chronic thirst or not , or whether the East side water wasn't so good as that of the West side ; but I do know that he fairly haunted the Pennington farmhouse after that .
Mrs. Pennington was home the next time he went , and he asked her about her new girl .
To his surprise the good lady was unusually reticent .
She couldn't really say very much about Nelly .
No , she didn't belong anywhere near Riverside .
In fact , she -- Mrs. Pennington -- didn't think she had any settled home at present .
Her father was travelling over the country somewhere .
Nelly was a good little girl , and very obliging .
Beyond this Winslow could get no more information , so he went around and talked to Nelly , who was sitting on the bench under the poplars and seemed absorbed in watching the sunset .
She dropped her g's badly and made some grammatical errors that caused Winslow's flesh to creep on his bones .
But any man could have forgiven mistakes from such dimpled lips in such a sweet voice .
He asked her to go for a row up the river in the twilight and she assented ; she handled an oar very well , he found out , and the exercise became her .
Winslow tried to get her to talk about herself , but failed signally and had to content himself with Mrs. Pennington's meagre information .
He told her about himself frankly enough -- how he had had fever in the spring and had been ordered to spend the summer in the country and do nothing useful until his health was fully restored , and how lonesome it was in Riverside in general and at the Beckwith farm in particular .
He made out quite a dismal case for himself and if Nelly wasn't sorry for him , she should have been .
* * * * * At the end of a fortnight Riverside folks began to talk about Winslow and the Penningtons ' hired girl .
He was reported to be `` dead gone '' on her ; he took her out rowing every evening , drove her to preaching up the Bend on Sunday nights , and haunted the Pennington farmhouse .
Wise folks shook their heads over it and wondered that Mrs. Pennington allowed it .
Winslow was a gentleman , and that Nelly Ray , whom nobody knew anything about , not even where she came from , was only a common hired girl , and he had no business to be hanging about her .
She was pretty , to be sure ; but she was absurdly stuck-up and wouldn't associate with other Riverside `` help '' at all .
Well , pride must have a fall ; there must be something queer about her when she was so awful sly as to her past life .
Winslow and Nelly did not trouble themselves in the least over all this gossip ; in fact , they never even heard it .
Winslow was hopelessly in love , when he found this out he was aghast .
He thought of his father , the ambitious railroad magnate ; of his mother , the brilliant society leader ; of his sisters , the beautiful and proud ; he was honestly frightened .
It would never do ; he must not go to see Nelly again .
He kept this prudent resolution for twenty-four hours and then rowed over to the West shore .
He found Nelly sitting on the bank in her old faded print dress and he straightway forgot everything he ought to have remembered .
Nelly herself never seemed to be conscious of the social gulf between them .
At least she never alluded to it in any way , and accepted Winslow's attentions as if she had a perfect right to them .
She had broken the record by staying with Mrs. Pennington four weeks , and even the cats were in subjection .
Winslow was well enough to have gone back to the city and , in fact , his father was writing for him .
But he couldn't leave Beckwiths ' , apparently .
At any rate he stayed on and met Nelly every day and cursed himself for a cad and a cur and a weak-brained idiot .
One day he took Nelly for a row up the river .
They went further than usual around the Bend .
Winslow didn't want to go too far , for he knew that a party of his city friends , chaperoned by Mrs. Keyton-Wells , were having a picnic somewhere up along the river shore that day .
But Nelly insisted on going on and on , and of course she had her way .
When they reached a little pine-fringed headland they came upon the picnickers , within a stone's throw .
Everybody recognized Winslow .
`` Why , there is Burton ! ''
he heard Mrs. Keyton-Wells exclaim , and he knew she was putting up her glasses .
Will Evans , who was an especial chum of his , ran down to the water's edge .
`` Bless me , Win , where did you come from ?
Come right in .
We haven't had tea yet .
Bring your friend too , '' he added , becoming conscious that Winslow's friend was a mighty pretty girl .
Winslow's face was crimson .
He avoided Nelly's eye .
`` Are them people friends of yours ? ''
she asked in a low tone .
`` Yes , '' he muttered .
`` Well , let us go ashore if they want us to , '' she said calmly .
`` I don't mind . ''
For three seconds Winslow hesitated .
Then he pulled ashore and helped Nelly to alight on a jutting rock .
There was a curious , set expression about his fine mouth as he marched Nelly up to Mrs. Keyton-Wells and introduced her .
Mrs. Keyton-Wells's greeting was slightly cool , but very polite .
She supposed Miss Ray was some little country girl with whom Burton Winslow was carrying on a summer flirtation ; respectable enough , no doubt , and must be treated civilly , but of course wouldn't expect to be made an equal of exactly .
The other women took their cue from her , but the men were more cordial .
Miss Ray might be shabby , but she was distinctly fetching , and Winslow looked savage .
Nelly was not a whit abashed , seemingly , by the fashionable circle in which she found herself , and she talked away to Will Evans and the others in her soft drawl as if she had known them all her life .
All might have gone passably well , had not a little Riverside imp , by name of Rufus Hent , who had been picked up by the picnickers to run their errands , come up just then with a pail of water .
`` Golly ! ''
he ejaculated in very audible tones .
`` If there ain't Mrs. Pennington's hired girl ! ''
Mrs. Keyton-Wells stiffened with horror .
Winslow darted a furious glance at the tell-tale that would have annihilated anything except a small boy .
Will Evans grinned and went on talking to Nelly , who had failed to hear , or at least to heed , the exclamation .
The mischief was done , the social thermometer went down to zero in Nelly's neighbourhood .
The women ignored her altogether .
Winslow set his teeth together and registered a mental vow to wring Rufus Hent's sunburned neck at the first opportunity .
He escorted Nelly to the table and waited on her with ostentatious deference , while Mrs. Keyton-Wells glanced at him stonily and made up her mind to tell his mother when she went home .
Nelly's social ostracism did not affect her appetite .
But after lunch was over , she walked down to the skiff .
Winslow followed her .
`` Do you want to go home ? ''
he asked .
`` Yes , it's time I went , for the cats may be raidin ' the pantry .
But you must not come ; your friends here want you . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Winslow sulkily .
`` If you are going I am too . ''
But Nelly was too quick for him ; she sprang into the skiff , unwound the rope , and pushed off before he guessed her intention .
`` I can row myself home and I mean to , '' she announced , taking up the oars defiantly .
`` Nelly , '' he implored .
Nelly looked at him wickedly .
`` You 'd better go back to your friends .
That old woman with the eyeglasses is watchin ' you . ''
Winslow said something strong under his breath as he went back to the others .
Will Evans and his chums began to chaff him about Nelly , but he looked so dangerous that they concluded to stop .
There is no denying that Winslow was in a fearful temper just then with Mrs. Keyton-Wells , Evans , himself , Nelly -- in fact , with all the world .
His friends drove him home in the evening on their way to the station and dropped him at the Beckwith farm .
At dusk he went moodily down to the shore .
Far up the Bend was dim and shadowy and stars were shining above the wooded shores .
Over the river the Pennington farmhouse lights twinkled out alluringly .
Winslow watched them until he could stand it no longer .
Nelly had made off with his skiff , but Perry Beckwith's dory was ready to hand .
In five minutes , Winslow was grounding her on the West shore .
Nelly was sitting on a rock at the landing place .
He went over and sat down silently beside her .
A full moon was rising above the dark hills up the Bend and in the faint light the girl was wonderfully lovely .
`` I thought you weren't comin ' over at all tonight , '' she said , smiling up at him , `` and I was sorry , because I wanted to say goodbye to you . ''
`` Goodbye ?
Nelly , you 're not going away ? ''
`` Yes .
The cats were in the pantry when I got home . ''
`` Nelly ! ''
`` Well , to be serious .
I 'm not goin ' for that , but I really am goin ' .
I had a letter from Dad this evenin ' .
Did you have a good time after I left this afternoon ?
Did Mrs. Keyton-Wells thaw out ? ''
`` Hang Mrs. Keyton-Wells !
Nelly , where are you going ? ''
`` To Dad , of course .
We used to live down south together , but two months ago we broke up housekeepin ' and come north .
We thought we could do better up here , you know .
Dad started out to look for a place to settle down and I came here while he was prospectin ' .
He's got a house now , he says , and wants me to go right off .
I 'm goin ' tomorrow . ''
`` Nelly , you mustn't go -- you mustn't , I tell you , '' exclaimed Winslow in despair .
`` I love you -- I love you -- you must stay with me forever . ''
`` You don't know what you 're sayin ' , Mr. Winslow , '' said Nelly coldly .
`` Why , you can't marry me -- a common servant girl . ''
`` I can and I will , if you'll have me , '' answered Winslow recklessly .
`` I can't ever let you go .
I've loved you ever since I first saw you .
Nelly , won't you be my wife ?
Don't you love me ? ''
`` Well , yes , I do , '' confessed Nelly suddenly ; and then it was fully five minutes before Winslow gave her a chance to say anything else .
`` Oh , what will your people say ? ''
she contrived to ask at last .
`` Won't they be in a dreadful state ?
Oh , it will never do for you to marry me . ''
`` Won't it ? ''
said Winslow in a tone of satisfaction .
`` I rather think it will .
Of course , my family will rampage a bit at first .
I daresay Father'll turn me out .
Don't worry over that , Nelly .
I 'm not afraid of work .
I 'm not afraid of anything except losing you . ''
`` You'll have to see what Dad says , '' remarked Nelly , after another eloquent interlude .
`` He won't object , will he ?
I'll write to him or go and see him .
Where is he ? ''
`` He is in town at the Arlington . ''
`` The Arlington ! ''
Winslow was amazed .
The Arlington was the most exclusive and expensive hotel in town .
`` What is he doing there ? ''
`` Transacting a real estate or railroad deal with your father , I believe , or something of that sort . ''
`` Nelly ! ''
`` Well ? ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
`` Just what I say . ''
Winslow got up and looked at her .
`` Nelly , who are you ? ''
`` Helen Ray Scott , at your service , sir . ''
`` Not Helen Ray Scott , the daughter of the railroad king ? ''
`` The same .
Are you sorry that you 're engaged to her ?
If you are , she'll stay Nelly Ray . ''
Winslow dropped back on the seat with a long breath .
`` Nelly , I don't understand .
Why did you deceive me ?
I feel stunned . ''
`` Oh , do forgive me , '' she said merrily .
`` I shouldn't have , I suppose -- but you know you took me for the hired girl the very first time you saw me , and you patronized me and called me Nelly ; so I let you think so just for fun .
I never thought it would come to this .
When Father and I came north I took a fancy to come here and stay with Mrs. Pennington -- who is an old nurse of mine -- until Father decided where to take up our abode .
I got here the night before we met .
My trunk was delayed so I put on an old cotton dress her niece had left here -- and you came and saw me .
I made Mrs. Pennington keep the secret -- she thought it great fun ; and I really was a great hand to do little chores and keep the cats in subjection too .
I made mistakes in grammar and dropped my g's on purpose -- it was such fun to see you wince when I did it .
It was cruel to tease you so , I suppose , but it was so sweet just to be loved for myself -- not because I was an heiress and a belle -- I couldn't bear to tell you the truth .
Did you think I couldn't read your thoughts this afternoon , when I insisted on going ashore ?
You were a little ashamed of me -- you know you were .
I didn't blame you for that , but if you hadn't gone ashore and taken me as you did I would never have spoken to you again .
Mrs. Keyton-Wells won't snub me next time we meet .
And some way I don't think your father will turn you out , either .
Have you forgiven me yet , Burton ? ''
`` I shall never call you anything but Nelly , '' said Winslow irrelevantly .
