BY L.M. MONTGOMERY `` Here's Aunt Susanna , girls , '' said Laura who was sitting by the north window -- nothing but north light does for Laura who is the artist of our talented family .
Each of us has a little pet new-fledged talent which we are faithfully cultivating in the hope that it will amount to something and soar highly some day .
But it is difficult to cultivate four talents on our tiny income .
If Laura wasn't such a good manager we never could do it .
Laura's words were a signal for Kate to hang up her violin and for me to push my pen and portfolio out of sight .
Laura had hidden her brushes and water colors as she spoke .
Only Margaret continued to bend serenely over her Latin grammar .
Aunt Susanna frowns on musical and literary and artistic ambitions but she accords a faint approval to Margaret's desire for an education .
A college course , with a tangible diploma at the end , and a sensible pedagogic aspiration is something Aunt Susanna can understand when she tries hard .
But she can not understand messing with paints , fiddling , or scribbling , and she has only unmeasured contempt for messers , fiddlers , and scribblers .
Time was when we had paid no attention to Aunt Susanna's views on these points ; but ever since she had , on one incautious day when she was in high good humor , dropped a pale , anemic little hint that she might send Margaret to college if she were a good girl we had been bending all our energies towards securing Aunt Susanna's approval .
It was not enough that Aunt Susanna should approve of Margaret ; she must approve of the whole four of us or she would not help Margaret .
That is Aunt Susanna's way .
Of late we had been growing a little discouraged .
Aunt Susanna had recently read a magazine article which stated that the higher education of women was ruining our country and that a woman who was a B.A. couldn't , in the very nature of things , ever be a housewifely , cookly creature .
Consequently , Margaret's chances looked a little foggy ; but we hadn't quite given up hope .
A very little thing might sway Aunt Susanna one way or the other , so that we walked very softly and tried to mingle serpents ' wisdom and doves ' harmlessness in practical portions .
When Aunt Susanna came in Laura was crocheting , Kate was sewing , and I was poring over a recipe book .
That was not deception at all , since we did all these things frequently -- much more frequently , in fact , than we painted or fiddled or wrote .
But Aunt Susanna would never believe it .
Nor did she believe it now .
She threw back her lovely new sealskin cape , looked around the sitting-room and then smiled -- a truly Aunt Susannian smile .
`` What a pity you forgot to wipe that smudge of paint off your nose , Laura , '' she said sarcastically .
`` You don't seem to get on very fast with your lace .
How long is it since you began it ?
Over three months , isn't it ? ''
`` This is the third piece of the same pattern I've done in three months , Aunt Susanna , '' said Laura presently .
Laura is an old duck .
She never gets cross and snaps back .
I do ; and it's so hard not to with Aunt Susanna sometimes .
But I generally manage it for I 'd do anything for Margaret .
Laura did not tell Aunt Susanna that she sold her lace at the Women's Exchange in town and made enough to buy her new hats .
She makes enough out of her water colors to dress herself .
Aunt Susanna took a second breath and started in again .
`` I notice your violin hasn't quite as much dust on it as the rest of the things in this room , Kate .
It's a pity you stopped playing just as I came in .
I don't enjoy fiddling much but I 'd prefer it to seeing anyone using a needle who isn't accustomed to it . ''
Kate is really a most dainty needlewoman and does all the fine sewing in our family .
She colored and said nothing -- that being the highest pitch of virtue to which our Katie , like myself , can attain .
`` And there's Margaret ruining her eyes over books , '' went on Aunt Susanna severely .
`` Will you kindly tell me , Margaret Thorne , what good you ever expect Latin to do you ? ''
`` Well , you see , Aunt Susanna , '' said Margaret gently -- Magsie and Laura are birds of a feather -- `` I want to be a teacher if I can manage to get through , and I shall need Latin for that . ''
All the girls except me had now got their accustomed rap , but I knew better than to hope I should escape .
`` So you 're reading a recipe book , Agnes ?
Well , that's better than poring over a novel .
I 'm afraid you haven't been at it very long though .
People generally don't read recipes upside down -- and besides , you didn't quite cover up your portfolio .
I see a corner of it sticking out .
Was genius burning before I came in ?
It's too bad if I quenched the flame . ''
`` A cookery book isn't such a novelty to me as you seem to think , Aunt Susanna , '' I said , as meekly as it was possible for me .
`` Why I 'm a real good cook -- ` if I do say it as hadn't orter . ' ''
I am , too .
`` Well , I 'm glad to hear it , '' said Aunt Susanna skeptically , `` because that has to do with my errand her to-day .
I 'm in a peck of troubles .
Firstly , Miranda Mary's mother has had to go and get sick and Miranda Mary must go home to wait on her .
Secondly , I've just had a telegram from my sister-in-law who has been ordered west for her health , and I'll have to leave on to-night's train to see her before she goes .
I can't get back until the noon train Thursday , and that is Thanksgiving , and I've invited Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert to dinner that day .
They'll come on the same train .
I 'm dreadfully worried .
There doesn't seem to be anything I can do except get on of you girls to go up to the Pinery Thursday morning and cook the dinner for us .
Do you think you can manage it ? ''
We all felt rather dismayed , and nobody volunteered with a rush .
But as I had just boasted that I could cook it was plainly my duty to step into the breach , and I did it with fear and trembling .
`` I'll go , Aunt Susanna , '' I said .
`` And I'll help you , '' said Kate .
`` Well , I suppose I'll have to try you , '' said Aunt Susanna with the air of a woman determined to make the best of a bad business .
`` Here is the key of the kitchen door .
You'll find everything in the pantry , turkey and all .
The mince pies are all ready made so you'll only have to warm them up .
I want dinner sharp at twelve for the train is due at 11:50 .
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert are very particular and I do hope you will have things right .
Oh , if I could only be home myself !
Why will people get sick at such inconvenient times ? ''
`` Don't worry , Aunt Susanna , '' I said comfortingly .
`` Kate and I will have your Thanksgiving dinner ready for you in tiptop style . ''
`` Well I 'm sure I hope so .
Don't get to mooning over a story , Agnes .
I'll lock the library up and fortunately there are no fiddles at the Pinery .
Above all , don't let any of the McGinnises in .
They'll be sure to be prowling around when I 'm not home .
Don't give that dog of theirs any scraps either .
That is Miranda Mary's one fault .
She will feed that dog in spite of all I can do and I can't walk out of my own back door without falling over him . ''
We promise to eschew the McGinnises and all their works , including the dog , and when Aunt Susanna had gone we looked at each other with mingled hope and fear .
`` Girls , this is the chance of your lives , '' said Laura .
`` If you can only please Aunt Susanna with this dinner it will convince her that you are good cooks in spite of your nefarious bent for music and literature .
I consider the illness of Miranda Mary's mother a Providential interposition -- that is , if she isn't too sick . ''
`` It's all very well for you to be pleased , Lolla , '' I said dolefully .
`` But I don't feel jubilant over the prospect at all .
Something will probably go wrong .
And then there's our own nice little Thanksgiving celebration we've planned , and pinched and economized for weeks to provide .
That is half spoiled now . ''
`` Oh , what is that compared to Margaret's chance of going to college ? ''
exclaimed Kate .
`` Cheer up , Aggie .
You know we can cook .
I feel that it is now or never with Aunt Susanna . ''
I cheered up accordingly .
We are not given to pessimism which is fortunate .
Ever since father died four years ago we have struggled on here , content to give up a good deal just to keep our home and be together .
This little gray house -- oh , how we do love it and its apple trees -- is ours and we have , as aforesaid , a tiny income and our ambitions ; not very big ambitions but big enough to give zest to our lives and hope to the future .
We've been very happy as a rule .
Aunt Susanna has a big house and lots of money but she isn't as happy as we are .
She nags us a good deal -- just as she used to nag father -- but we don't mind it very much after all .
Indeed , I sometimes suspect that we really like Aunt Susanna tremendously if she 'd only leave us alone long enough to find it out .
Thursday morning was an ideal Thanksgiving morning -- bright , crisp and sparkling .
There had been a white frost in the night , and the orchard and the white birch wood behind it looked like fairyland .
We were all up early .
None of us had slept well , and both Kate and I had had the most fearful dreams of spoiling Aunt Susanna's Thanksgiving dinner .
`` Never mind , dreams always go by contraries , you know , '' said Laura cheerfully .
`` You 'd better go up to the Pinery early and get the fires on , for the house will be cold .
Remember the McGinnises and the dog .
Weigh the turkey so that you'll know exactly how long to cook it .
Put the pies in the oven in time to get piping hot -- lukewarm mince pies are an abomination .
Be sure -- '' `` Laura , don't confuse us with any more cautions , '' I groaned , `` or we shall get hopelessly fuddled .
Come on , Kate , before she has time to . ''
It wasn't very far up to the Pinery -- just ten minutes ' walk , and such a delightful walk on that delightful morning .
We went through the orchard and then through the white birch wood where the loveliness of the frosted boughs awed us .
Beyond that there was a lane between ranks of young , balsamy , white-misted firs and then an open pasture field , sere and crispy .
Just across it was the Pinery , a lovely old house with dormer windows in the roof , surrounded by pines that were dark and glorious against the silvery morning sky .
The McGinnis dog was sitting on the back-door steps when we arrived .
He wagged his tail ingratiatingly , but we ruthlessly pushed him off , went in and shut the door in his face .
All the little McGinnises were sitting in a row on their fence , and they whooped derisively .
The McGinnis manners are not those which appertain to the caste of Vere de Vere ; but we rather like the urchins -- there are eight of them -- and we would probably have gone over to talk to them if we had not had the fear of Aunt Susanna before our eyes .
We kindled the fires , weighed the turkey , put it in the oven and prepared the vegetables .
Then we set the dining-room table and decorated it with Aunt Susanna's potted ferns and dishes of lovely red apples .
Everything went so smoothly that we soon forgot to be nervous .
When the turkey was done , we took it out , set it on the back of the range to keep warm and put the mince pies in .
The potatoes , cabbage and turnips were bubbling away cheerfully , and everything was going as merrily as a marriage bell .
Then , all at once , things happened .
In an evil hour we went to the yard window and looked out .
We saw a quiet scene .
The McGinnis dog was still sitting on his haunches by the steps , just as he had been sitting all the morning .
Down in the McGinnis yard everything wore an unusually peaceful aspect .
Only one McGinnis was in sight -- Tony , aged eight , who was perched up on the edge of the well box , swinging his legs and singing at the top of his melodious Irish voice .
All at once , just as we were looking at him , Tony went over backward and apparently tumbled head foremost down his father's well .
Kate and I screamed simultaneously .
We tore across the kitchen , flung open the door , plunged down over Aunt Susanna's yard , scrambled over the fence and flew to the well .
Just as we reached it , Tony's red head appeared as he climbed serenely out over the box .
I don't know whether I felt more relieved or furious .
He had merely fallen on the blank guard inside the box : and there are times when I am tempted to think he fell on purpose because he saw Kate and me looking out at the window .
At least he didn't seem at all frightened , and grinned most impishly at us .
Kate and I turned on our heels and marched back in as dignified a manner as was possible under the circumstances .
Half way up Aunt Susanna's yard we forgot dignity and broke into a run .
We had left the door open and the McGinnis dog had disappeared .
Never shall I forget the sight we saw or the smell we smelled when we burst into that kitchen .
There on the floor was the McGinnis dog and what was left of Aunt Susanna's Thanksgiving turkey .
As for the smell , imagine a commingled odor of scorching turnips and burning mince pies , and you have it .
The dog fled out with a guilty yelp .
I groaned and snatched the turnips off .
Kate threw open the oven door and dragged out the pies .
Pies and turnips were ruined as irretrievably as the turkey .
`` Oh , what shall we do ? ''
I cried miserably .
I knew Margaret's chance of college was gone forever .
`` Do ! ''
Kate was superb .
She didn't lose her wits for a second .
`` We'll go home and borrow the girls ' dinner .
Quick -- there's just ten minutes before train time .
Throw those pies and turnips into this basket -- the turkey too -- we'll carry them with us to hide them . ''
I might not be able to evolve an idea like that on the spur of the moment , but I can at least act up to it when it is presented .
Without a moment's delay we shut the door and ran .
As we went I saw the McGinnis dog licking his chops over in their yard .
I have been ashamed ever since of my feelings toward that dog .
They were murderous .
Fortunately I had no time to indulge them .
It is ten minutes walk from the Pinery to our house , but you can run it in five .
Kate and I burst into the kitchen just as Laura and Margaret were sitting down to dinner .
We had neither time nor breath for explanations .
Without a word I grasped the turkey platter and the turnip tureen .
Kate caught one hot mince pie from the oven and whisked a cold one out of the pantry .
`` We've -- got -- to have -- them , '' was all she said .
I've always said that Laura and Magsie would rise to any occasion .
They saw us carry their Thanksgiving dinner off under their very eyes and they never interfered by word or motion .
They didn't even worry us with questions .
They realized that something desperate had happened and that the emergency called for deed not words .
`` Aggie , '' gasped Kate behind me as we tore through the birch wood , `` the border -- of these pies -- is crimped -- differently -- from Aunt Susanna's . ''
`` She -- won't know -- the difference , '' I panted .
`` Miranda -- Mary -- crimps them . ''
We got back to the Pinery just as the train whistle blew .
We had ten minutes to transfer turkey and turnips to Aunt Susanna's dishes , hide our own , air the kitchen , and get back our breath .
We accomplished it .
When Aunt Susanna and her guests came we were prepared for them : we were calm -- outwardly -- and the second mince pie was getting hot in the oven .
It was ready by the time it was needed .
Fortunately our turkey was the same size as Aunt Susanna's , and Laura had cooked a double supply of turnips , intending to warm them up the next day .
Still , all things considered , Kate and I didn't enjoy that dinner much .
We kept thinking of poor Laura and Magsie at home , dining off potatoes on Thanksgiving !
But at least Aunt Susanna was satisfied .
When Kate and I were washing the dishes she came out quite beamingly .
`` Well , my dears , I must admit that you made a very good job of the dinner , indeed .
The turkey was done to perfection .
As for the mince pies -- well , of course Miranda Mary made them , but she must have had extra good luck with them , for they were excellent and heated to just the right degree .
You didn't give anything to the McGinnis dog , I hope ? ''
`` No , we didn't give him anything , '' said Kate .
Aunt Susanna did not notice the emphasis .
When we had finished the dishes we smuggled our platter and tureen out of the house and went home .
Laura and Margaret were busy painting and studying and were just as sweet-tempered as if we hadn't robbed them of their dinner .
But we had to tell them the whole story before we even took off our hats .
`` There is a special Providence for children and idiots , '' said Laura gently .
We didn't ask her whether she meant us or Tony McGinnis or both .
There are some things better left in obscurity .
I 'd have probably said something much sharper than that if anybody had made off with my Thanksgiving turkey so unceremoniously .
Aunt Susanna came down the next day and told Margaret that she would send her to college .
Also she commissioned Laura to paint her a water-color for her dining-room and said she 'd pay her five dollars for it .
Kate and I were rather left out in the cold in this distribution of favors , but when you come to reflect that Laura and Magsie had really cooked that dinner , it was only just .
Anyway , Aunt Susanna has never since insinuated that we can't cook , and that is as much as we deserve .
