Mrs. Falconer and Miss Bailey walked home together through the fine blue summer afternoon from the Ladies ' Aid meeting at Mrs. Robinson's .
They were talking earnestly ; that is to say , Miss Bailey was talking earnestly and volubly , and Mrs. Falconer was listening .
Mrs. Falconer had reduced the practice of listening to a fine art .
She was a thin , wistful-faced mite of a woman , with sad brown eyes , and with snow-white hair that was a libel on her fifty-five years and girlish step .
Nobody in Lindsay ever felt very well acquainted with Mrs. Falconer , in spite of the fact that she had lived among them forty years .
She kept between her and her world a fine , baffling reserve which no one had ever been able to penetrate .
It was known that she had had a bitter sorrow in her life , but she never made any reference to it , and most people in Lindsay had forgotten it .
Some foolish ones even supposed that Mrs. Falconer had forgotten it .
`` Well , I do not know what on earth is to be done with Camilla Clark , '' said Miss Bailey , with a prodigious sigh .
`` I suppose that we will simply have to trust the whole matter to Providence . ''
Miss Bailey's tone and sigh really seemed to intimate to the world at large that Providence was a last resort and a very dubious one .
Not that Miss Bailey meant anything of the sort ; her faith was as substantial as her works , which were many and praiseworthy and seasonable .
The case of Camilla Clark was agitating the Ladies ' Aid of one of the Lindsay churches .
They had talked about it through the whole of that afternoon session while they sewed for their missionary box -- talked about it , and come to no conclusion .
In the preceding spring James Clark , one of the hands in the lumber mill at Lindsay , had been killed in an accident .
The shock had proved nearly fatal to his young wife .
The next day Camilla Clark's baby was born dead , and the poor mother hovered for weeks between life and death .
Slowly , very slowly , life won the battle , and Camilla came back from the valley of the shadow .
But she was still an invalid , and would be so for a long time .
The Clarks had come to Lindsay only a short time before the accident .
They were boarding at Mrs. Barry's when it happened , and Mrs. Barry had shown every kindness and consideration to the unhappy young widow .
But now the Barrys were very soon to leave Lindsay for the West , and the question was , what was to be done with Camilla Clark ?
She could not go west ; she could not even do work of any sort yet in Lindsay ; she had no relatives or friends in the world ; and she was absolutely penniless .
As she and her husband had joined the church to which the aforesaid Ladies ' Aid belonged , the members thereof felt themselves bound to take up her case and see what could be done for her .
The obvious solution was for some of them to offer her a home until such time as she would be able to go to work .
But there did not seem to be anyone who could offer to do this -- unless it was Mrs. Falconer .
The church was small , and the Ladies ' Aid smaller .
There were only twelve members in it ; four of these were unmarried ladies who boarded , and so were helpless in the matter ; of the remaining eight seven had large families , or sick husbands , or something else that prevented them from offering Camilla Clark an asylum .
Their excuses were all valid ; they were good , sincere women who would have taken her in if they could , but they could not see their way clear to do so .
However , it was probable they would eventually manage it in some way if Mrs. Falconer did not rise to the occasion .
Nobody liked to ask Mrs. Falconer outright to take Camilla Clark in , yet everyone thought she might offer .
She was comfortably off , and though her house was small , there was nobody to live in it except herself and her husband .
But Mrs. Falconer sat silent through all the discussion of the Ladies ' Aid , and never opened her lips on the subject of Camilla Clark despite the numerous hints which she received .
Miss Bailey made one more effort as aforesaid .
When her despairing reference to Providence brought forth no results , she wished she dared ask Mrs. Falconer openly to take Camilla Clark , but somehow she did not dare .
There were not many things that could daunt Miss Bailey , but Mrs. Falconer's reserve and gentle aloofness always could .
When Miss Bailey had gone on down the village street , Mrs. Falconer paused for a few moments at her gate , apparently lost in deep thought .
She was perfectly well aware of all the hints that had been thrown out for her benefit that afternoon .
She knew that the Aids , one and all , thought that she ought to take Camilla Clark .
But she had no room to give her -- for it was out of the question to think of putting her in Missy's room .
`` I couldn't do such a thing , '' she said to herself piteously .
`` They don't understand -- they can't understand -- but I couldn't give her Missy's room .
I 'm sorry for poor Camilla , and I wish I could help her .
But I can't give her Missy's room , and I have no other . ''
The little Falconer cottage , set back from the road in the green seclusion of an apple orchard and thick , leafy maples , was a very tiny one .
There were just two rooms downstairs and two upstairs .
When Mrs. Falconer entered the kitchen an old-looking man with long white hair and mild blue eyes looked up with a smile from the bright-coloured blocks before him .
`` Have you been lonely , Father ? ''
said Mrs. Falconer tenderly .
He shook his head , still smiling .
`` No , not lonely .
These '' -- pointing to the blocks -- `` are so pretty .
See my house , Mother . ''
This man was Mrs. Falconer's husband .
Once he had been one of the smartest , most intelligent men in Lindsay , and one of the most trusted employees of the railroad company .
Then there had been a train collision .
Malcolm Falconer was taken out of the wreck fearfully injured .
He eventually recovered physical health , but he was from that time forth merely a child in intellect -- a harmless , kindly creature , docile and easily amused .
Mrs. Falconer tried to dismiss the thought of Camilla Clark from her mind , but it would not be dismissed .
Her conscience reproached her continually .
She tried to compromise with it by saying that she would go down and see Camilla that evening and take her some nice fresh Irish moss jelly .
It was so good for delicate people .
She found Camilla alone in the Barry sitting-room , and noticed with a feeling that was almost like self-reproach how thin and frail and white the poor young creature looked .
Why , she seemed little more than a child !
Her great dark eyes were far too big for her wasted face , and her hands were almost transparent .
`` I 'm not much better yet , '' said Camilla tremulously , in response to Mrs. Falconer's inquiries .
`` Oh , I 'm so slow getting well !
And I know -- I feel that I 'm a burden to everybody . ''
`` But you mustn't think that , dear , '' said Mrs. Falconer , feeling more uncomfortable than ever .
`` We are all glad to do all we can for you . ''
Mrs. Falconer paused suddenly .
She was a very truthful woman and she instantly realized that that last sentence was not true .
She was not doing all she could for Camilla -- she would not be glad , she feared , to do all she could .
`` If I were only well enough to go to work , '' sighed Camilla .
`` Mr. Marks says I can have a place in the shoe factory whenever I 'm able to .
But it will be so long yet .
Oh , I 'm so tired and discouraged ! ''
She put her hands over her face and sobbed .
Mrs. Falconer caught her breath .
What if Missy were somewhere alone in the world -- ill , friendless , with never a soul to offer her a refuge or a shelter ?
It was so very , very probable .
Before she could check herself Mrs. Falconer spoke .
`` My dear , don't cry !
I want you to come and stay with me until you get perfectly well .
You won't be a speck of trouble , and I'll be glad to have you for company . ''
Mrs. Falconer's Rubicon was crossed .
She could not draw back now if she wanted to .
But she was not at all sure that she did want to .
By the time she reached home she was sure she didn't want to .
And yet -- to give Missy's room to Camilla !
It seemed a great sacrifice to Mrs. Falconer .
She went up to it the next morning with firmly set lips to air and dust it .
It was just the same as when Missy had left it long ago .
Nothing had ever been moved or changed , but everything had always been kept beautifully neat and clean .
Snow-white muslin curtains hung before the small square window .
In one corner was a little white bed .
Missy's pictures hung on the walls ; Missy's books and work-basket were lying on the square stand ; there was a bit of half-finished fancy work , yellow from age , lying in the basket .
On a small bureau before the gilt-framed mirror were several little girlish knick-knacks and boxes whose contents had never been disturbed since Missy went away .
One of Missy's gay pink ribbons -- Missy had been so fond of pink ribbons -- hung over the top of the mirror .
On a chair lay Missy's hat , bright with ribbons and roses , just as Missy had laid it there on the night before she left her home .
Mrs. Falconer's lips quivered as she looked about the room , and tears came to her eyes .
Oh , how could she put these things away and bring a stranger here -- here , where no one save herself had entered for fifteen years , here in this room , sacred to Missy's memory , waiting for her return when she should be weary of wandering ?
It almost seemed to the mother's vague fancy , distorted by long , silent brooding , that her daughter's innocent girlhood had been kept here for her and would be lost forever if the room were given to another .
`` I suppose it's dreadful foolishness , '' said Mrs. Falconer , wiping her eyes .
`` I know it is , but I can't help it .
It just goes to my heart to think of putting these things away .
But I must do it .
Camilla is coming here today , and this room must be got ready for her .
Oh , Missy , my poor lost child , it's for your sake I 'm doing this -- because you may be suffering somewhere as Camilla is now , and I 'd wish the same kindness to be shown to you . ''
She opened the window and put fresh linen on the bed .
One by one Missy's little belongings were removed and packed carefully away .
On the gay , foolish little hat with its faded wreath of roses the mother's tears fell as she put it in a box .
She remembered so plainly the first time Missy had worn it .
She could see the pretty , delicately tinted face , the big shining brown eyes , and the riotous golden curls under the drooping , lace-edged brim .
Oh , where was Missy now ?
What roof sheltered her ?
Did she ever think of her mother and the little white cottage under the maples , and the low-ceilinged , dim room where she had knelt to say her childhood's prayer ?
Camilla Clark came that afternoon .
`` Oh , it is lovely here , '' she said gratefully , looking out into the rustling shade of the maples .
`` I 'm sure I shall soon get well here .
Mrs. Barry was so kind to me -- I shall never forget her kindness -- but the house is so close to the factory , and there was such a whirring of wheels all the time , it seemed to get into my head and make me wild with nervousness .
I 'm so weak that sounds like that worry me .
But it is so still and green and peaceful here .
It just rests me . ''
When bedtime came , Mrs. Falconer took Camilla up to Missy's room .
It was not as hard as she had expected it to be after all .
The wrench was over with the putting away of Missy's things , and it did not hurt the mother to see the frail , girlish Camilla in her daughter's place .
`` What a dear little room ! ''
said Camilla , glancing around .
`` It is so white and sweet .
Oh , I know I am going to sleep well here , and dream sweet dreams . ''
`` It was my daughter's room , '' said Mrs. Falconer , sitting down on the chintz-covered seat by the open window .
Camilla looked surprised .
`` I did not know you had a daughter , '' she said .
`` Yes -- I had just the one child , '' said Mrs. Falconer dreamily .
For fifteen years she had never spoken of Missy to a living soul except her husband .
But now she felt a sudden impulse to tell Camilla about her , and about the room .
`` Her name was Isabella , after her father's mother , but we never called her anything but Missy .
That was the little name she gave herself when she began to talk .
Oh , I've missed her so ! ''
`` When did she die ? ''
asked Camilla softly , sympathy shining , starlike , in her dark eyes .
`` She -- she didn't die , '' said Mrs. Falconer .
`` She went away .
She was a pretty girl and gay and fond of fun -- but such a good girl .
Oh , Missy was always a good girl !
Her father and I were so proud of her -- too proud , I suppose .
She had her little faults -- she was too fond of dress and gaiety , but then she was so young , and we indulged her .
Then Bert Williams came to Lindsay to work in the factory .
He was a handsome fellow , with taking ways about him , but he was drunken and profane , and nobody knew anything about his past life .
He fascinated Missy .
He kept coming to see her until her father forbade him the house .
Then our poor , foolish child used to meet him elsewhere .
We found this out afterwards .
And at last she ran away with him , and they were married over at Peterboro and went there to live , for Bert had got work there .
We -- we were too hard on Missy .
But her father was so dreadful hurt about it .
He 'd been so fond and proud of her , and he felt that she had disgraced him .
He disowned her , and sent her word never to show her face here again , for he 'd never forgive her .
And I was angry too .
I didn't send her any word at all .
Oh , how I've wept over that !
If I had just sent her one little word of forgiveness , everything might have been different .
But Father forbade me to .
`` Then in a little while there was a dreadful trouble .
A woman came to Peterboro and claimed to be Bert Williams's wife -- and she was -- she proved it .
Bert cleared out and was never seen again in these parts .
As soon as we heard about it Father relented , and I went right down to Peterboro to see Missy and bring her home .
But she wasn't there -- she had gone , nobody knew where .
I got a letter from her the next week .
She said her heart was broken , and she knew we would never forgive her , and she couldn't face the disgrace , so she was going away where nobody would ever find her .
We did everything we could to trace her , but we never could .
We've never heard from her since , and it is fifteen years ago .
Sometimes I am afraid she is dead , but then again I feel sure she isn't .
Oh , Camilla , if I could only find my poor child and bring her home !
`` This was her room .
And when she went away I made up my mind I would keep it for her just as she left it , and I have up to now .
Nobody has ever been inside the door but myself .
I've always hoped that Missy would come home , and I would lead her up here and say , ` Missy , here is your room just as you left it , and here is your place in your mother's heart just as you left it , ' But she never came .
I 'm afraid she never will . ''
Mrs. Falconer dropped her face in her hands and sobbed softly .
Camilla came over to her and put her arms about her .
`` I think she will , '' she said .
`` I think -- I am sure your love and prayers will bring Missy home yet .
And I understand how good you have been in giving me her room -- oh , I know what it must have cost you !
I will pray tonight that God will bring Missy back to you . ''
When Mrs. Falconer returned to the kitchen to close the house for the night , her husband being already sound asleep ; she heard a low , timid knock at the door .
Wondering who it could be so late , she opened it .
The light fell on a shrinking , shabby figure on the step , and on a pale , pinched face in which only a mother could have recognized the features of her child .
Mrs. Falconer gave a cry .
`` Missy !
Missy !
Missy ! ''
She caught the poor wanderer to her heart and drew her in .
`` Oh , Missy , Missy , have you come back at last ?
Thank God !
Oh , thank God ! ''
`` I had to come back .
I was starving for a glimpse of your face and of the old home , Mother , '' sobbed Missy .
`` But I didn't mean you should know -- I never meant to show myself to you .
I've been sick , and just as soon as I got better I came here .
I meant to creep home after dark and look at the dear old house , and perhaps get a glimpse of you and Father through the window if you were still here .
I didn't know if you were .
And then I meant to go right away on the night train .
I was under the window and I heard you telling my story to someone .
Oh , Mother , when I knew that you had forgiven me , that you loved me still and had always kept my room for me , I made up my mind that I 'd show myself to you . ''
The mother had got her child into a rocking-chair and removed the shabby hat and cloak .
How ill and worn and faded Missy looked !
Yet her face was pure and fine , and there was in it something sweeter than had ever been there in her beautiful girlhood .
`` I 'm terribly changed , am I not , Mother ? ''
said Missy , with a faint smile .
`` I've had a hard life -- but an honest one , Mother .
When I went away I was almost mad with the disgrace my wilfulness had brought on you and Father and myself .
I went as far as I could get away from you , and I got work in a factory .
I've worked there ever since , just making enough to keep body and soul together .
Oh , I've starved for a word from you -- the sight of your face !
But I thought Father would spurn me from his door if I should ever dare to come back . ''
`` Oh , Missy ! ''
sobbed the mother .
`` Your poor father is just like a child .
He got a terrible hurt ten years ago , and never got over it .
I don't suppose he'll even know you -- he's clean forgot everything .
But he forgave you before it happened .
You poor child , you 're done right out .
You 're too weak to be travelling .
But never mind , you 're home now , and I'll soon nurse you up .
I'll put on the kettle and get you a good cup of tea first thing .
And you 're not to do any more talking till the morning .
But , oh , Missy , I can't take you to your own room after all .
Camilla Clark has it , and she'll be asleep by now ; we mustn't disturb her , for she's been real sick .
I'll fix up a bed for you on the sofa , though .
Missy , Missy , let us kneel down here and thank God for His mercy ! ''
Late that night , when Missy had fallen asleep in her improvised bed , the wakeful mother crept in to gloat over her .
`` Just to think , '' she whispered , `` if I hadn't taken Camilla Clark in , Missy wouldn't have heard me telling about the room , and she 'd have gone away again and never have known .
Oh , I don't deserve such a blessing when I was so unwilling to take Camilla !
But I know one thing : this is going to be Camilla's home .
There'll be no leaving it even when she does get well .
She shall be my daughter , and I'll love her next to Missy . ''
