Being alone in London , yet wishing to celebrate the day , I decided to pay my respects to the lions at the Zoological Gardens .
A lovely place it was , and I enjoyed myself immensely ; for May-day in England is just what it should be , mild , sunny , flowery , and spring-like .
As I walked along the well-kept paths , between white and rosy hawthorn hedges , I kept coming upon new and curious sights ; for the birds and beasts are so skilfully arranged that it is more like travelling through a strange and pleasant country than visiting a menagerie .
The first thing I saw was a great American bison ; and I was so glad to meet with any one from home , that I 'd have patted him with pleasure if he had shown any cordiality toward me .
He didn't , however , but stared savagely with his fiery eyes , and put down his immense head with a sullen snort , as if he 'd have tossed me with great satisfaction .
I did not blame him , for the poor fellow was homesick , doubtless , for his own wide prairies and the free life he had lost .
So I threw him some fresh clover , and went on to the pelicans .
I never knew before what handsome birds they were ; not graceful , but with such snowy plumage , tinged with pale pink and faint yellow .
They had just had their bath , and stood arranging their feathers with their great bills , uttering a queer cry now and then , and nodding to one another sociably .
When fed , they gobbled up the fish , never stopping to swallow it till the pouches under their bills were full ; then they leisurely emptied them , and seemed to enjoy their lunch with the grave deliberation of regular Englishmen .
Being in a hurry to see the lions , I went on to the long row of cages , and there found a splendid sight .
Six lions and lionesses , in three or four different cages , sitting or standing in dignified attitudes , and eyeing the spectators with a mild expression in their fine eyes .
One lioness was ill , and lay on her bed , looking very pensive , while her mate moved restlessly about her , evidently anxious to do something for her , and much afflicted by her suffering .
I liked this lion very much , for , though the biggest , he was very gentle , and had a noble face .
The tigers were rushing about , as tigers usually are ; some creeping noiselessly to and fro , some leaping up and down , and some washing their faces with their velvet paws .
All looked and acted so like cats that I wasn't at all surprised to hear one of them purr when the keeper scratched her head .
It was a very loud and large purr , but no fireside pussy could have done it better , and every one laughed at the sound .
There were pretty spotted leopards , panthers , and smaller varieties of the same species .
I sat watching them a long time , longing to let some of the wild things out for a good run , they seemed so unhappy barred in those small dens .
Suddenly the lions began to roar , the tigers to snarl , and all to get very much excited about something , sniffing at the openings , thrusting their paws through the bars , and lashing their tails impatiently .
I couldn't imagine what the trouble was , till , far down the line , I saw a man with a barrowful of lumps of raw meat .
This was their dinner , and as they were fed but once a day they were ravenous .
Such roars and howls and cries as arose while the man went slowly down the line , gave one a good idea of the sounds to be heard in Indian forests and jungles .
The lions behaved best , for they only paced up and down , with an occasional cry ; but the tigers were quite frantic ; for they tumbled one over the other , shook the cages , and tried to reach the bystanders , just out of reach behind the bar that kept us at a safe distance .
One lady had a fright , for the wind blew the end of her shawl within reach of a tiger's great claw , and he clutched it , trying to drag her nearer .
The shawl came off , and the poor lady ran away screaming , as if a whole family of wild beasts were after her .
When the lumps of meat were thrown in , it was curious to see how differently the animals behaved .
The tigers snarled and fought and tore and got so savage I was very grateful that they were safely shut up .
In a few minutes , nothing but white bones remained , and then they howled for more .
One little leopard was better bred than the others , for he went up on a shelf in the cage , and ate his dinner in a quiet , proper manner , which was an example to the rest .
The lions ate in dignified silence , all but my favourite , who carried his share to his sick mate , and by every gentle means in his power tried to make her eat .
She was too ill , however , and turned away with a plaintive moan which seemed to grieve him sadly .
He wouldn't touch his dinner , but lay down near her , with the lump between his paws , as if guarding it for her ; and there I left him patiently waiting , in spite of his hunger , till his mate could share it with him .
As I took a last look at his fine old face , I named him Douglas , and walked away , humming to myself the lines of the ballad , -- Douglas , Douglas , Tender and true .
As a contrast to the wild beasts , I went to see the monkeys , who lived in a fine large house all to themselves .
Here was every variety , from the great ugly chimpanzee to the funny little fellows who played like boys , and cut up all sorts of capers .
A mamma sat tending her baby , and looking so like a little old woman that I laughed till the gray monkey with the blue nose scolded at me .
He was a cross old party , and sat huddled up in the straw , scowling at every one , like an ill-tempered old bachelor .
Half-a-dozen little ones teased him capitally by dropping bits of bread , nut-shells , and straws down on him from above , as they climbed about the perches , or swung by their tails .
One poor little chap had lost the curly end of his tail , -- I 'm afraid the gray one bit it off , -- and kept trying to swing like the others , forgetting that the strong , curly end was what he held on with .
He would run up the bare boughs , and give a jump , expecting to catch and swing , but the lame tail wouldn't hold him , and down he 'd go , bounce on to the straw .
At first he 'd sit and stare about him , as if much amazed to find himself there ; then he 'd scratch his little round head and begin to scold violently , which seemed to delight the other monkeys ; and , finally , he 'd examine his poor little tail , and appear to understand the misfortune which had befallen him .
The funny expression of his face was irresistible , and I enjoyed seeing him very much , and gave him a bun to comfort him when I went away .
The snake-house came next , and I went in , on my way to visit the rhinoceros family .
I rather like snakes , since I had a tame green one , who lived under the door-step , and would come out and play with me on sunny days .
These snakes I found very interesting , only they got under their blankets and wouldn't come out , and I wasn't allowed to poke them ; so I missed seeing several of the most curious .
An ugly cobra laid and blinked at me through the glass , looking quite as dangerous as he was .
There were big and little snakes , -- black , brown , and speckled , lively and lazy , pretty and plain ones , -- but I liked the great boa best .
When I came to his cage , I didn't see anything but the branch of a tree , such as I had seen in other cages , for the snakes to wind up and down .
` Where is he , I wonder ?
I hope he hasn't got out , ' I said to myself , thinking of a story I read once of a person in a menagerie , who turned suddenly and saw a great boa gliding towards him .
As I stood wondering if the big worm could be under the little flat blanket before me , the branch began to move all at once , and with a start , I saw a limb swing down to stare at me with the boa's glittering eyes .
He was so exactly the colour of the bare bough , and lay so still , I had not seen him till he came to take a look at me .
A very villainous-looking reptile he was , and I felt grateful that I didn't live in a country where such unpleasant neighbours might pop in upon you unexpectedly .
He was kind enough to take a promenade and show me his size , which seemed immense , as he stretched himself , and then knotted his rough grayish body into a great loop , with the fiery-eyed head in the middle .
He was not one of the largest kind , but I was quite satisfied , and left him to his dinner of rabbits , which I hadn't the heart to stay and see him devour alive .
I was walking toward the camel's pagoda , when , all of a sudden , a long , dark , curling thing came over my shoulder , and I felt warm breath in my face .
` It's the boa ; ' I thought , and gave a skip which carried me into the hedge , where I stuck , much to the amusement of some children riding on the elephant whose trunk had frightened me .
He had politely tried to tell me to clear the way , which I certainly had done with all speed .
Picking myself out of the hedge I walked beside him , examining his clumsy feet and peering up at his small , intelligent eye .
I 'm very sure he winked at me , as if enjoying the joke , and kept poking his trunk into my pocket , hoping to find something eatable .
I felt as if I had got into a foreign country as I looked about me and saw elephants and camels walking among the trees ; flocks of snow-white cranes stalking over the grass , on their long scarlet legs ; striped Zebras racing in their paddock ; queer kangaroos hopping about , with little ones in their pouches ; pretty antelopes chasing one another ; and , in an immense wire-covered aviary , all sorts of brilliant birds were flying about as gaily as if at home .
One of the curiosities was a sea-cow , who lived in a tank of salt water , and came at the keeper's call to kiss him , and flounder on its flippers along the margin of the tank after a fish .
It was very like a seal , only much larger , and had four fins instead of two .
Its eyes were lovely , so dark and soft and liquid ; but its mouth was not pretty , and I declined one of the damp kisses which it was ready to dispense at word of command .
The great polar bear lived next door , and spent his time splashing in and out of a pool of water , or sitting on a block of ice , panting , as if the mild spring day was blazing midsummer .
He looked very unhappy , and I thought it a pity that they didn't invent a big refrigerator for him .
These are not half of the wonderful creatures I saw , but I have not room to tell more ; only I advise all who can to pay a visit to the Zoological Gardens when they go to London , for it is one of the most interesting sights in that fine old city .
