It was one of the moist , pleasantly odorous nights of early spring .
There was a chill in the evening air , but the grass was growing green in sheltered spots , and Jeffrey Miller had found purple-petalled violets and pink arbutus on the hill that day .
Across a valley filled with beech and fir , there was a sunset afterglow , creamy yellow and pale red , with a new moon swung above it .
It was a night for a man to walk alone and dream of his love , which was perhaps why Jeffrey Miller came so loiteringly across the springy hill pasture , with his hands full of the mayflowers .
He was a tall , broad-shouldered man of forty , and looking no younger , with dark grey eyes and a tanned , clean-cut face , clean-shaven save for a drooping moustache .
Jeffrey Miller was considered a handsome man , and Bayside people had periodical fits of wondering why he had never married .
They pitied him for the lonely life he must lead alone there at the Valley Farm , with only a deaf old housekeeper as a companion , for it did not occur to the Bayside people in general that a couple of shaggy dogs could be called companions , and they did not know that books make very excellent comrades for people who know how to treat them .
One of Jeffrey's dogs was with him now -- the oldest one , with white breast and paws and a tawny coat .
He was so old that he was half-blind and rather deaf , but , with one exception , he was the dearest of living creatures to Jeffrey Miller , for Sara Stuart had given him the sprawly , chubby little pup years ago .
They came down the hill together .
A group of men were standing on the bridge in the hollow , discussing Colonel Stuart's funeral of the day before .
Jeffrey caught Sara's name and paused on the outskirts of the group to listen .
Sometimes he thought that if he were lying dead under six feet of turf and Sara Stuart's name were pronounced above him , his heart would give a bound of life .
`` Yes , the old kunnel's gone at last , '' Christopher Jackson was saying .
`` He took his time dyin ' , that's sartain .
Must be a kind of relief for Sara -- she's had to wait on him , hand and foot , for years .
But no doubt she'll feel pretty lonesome .
Wonder what she'll do ? ''
`` Is there any particular reason for her to do anything ? ''
asked Alec Churchill .
`` Well , she'll have to leave Pinehurst .
The estate's entailed and goes to her cousin , Charles Stuart . ''
There were exclamations of surprise from the other men on hearing this .
Jeffrey drew nearer , absently patting his dog's head .
He had not known it either .
`` Oh , yes , '' said Christopher , enjoying all the importance of exclusive information .
`` I thought everybody knew that .
Pinehurst goes to the oldest male heir .
The old kunnel felt it keen that he hadn't a son .
Of course , there's plenty of money and Sara'll get that .
But I guess she'll feel pretty bad at leaving her old home .
Sara ain't as young as she used to be , neither .
Let me see -- she must be thirty-eight .
Well , she's left pretty lonesome . ''
`` Maybe she'll stay on at Pinehurst , '' said Job Crowe .
`` It 'd only be right for her cousin to give her a home there . ''
Christopher shook his head .
`` No , I understand they 're not on very good terms .
Sara don't like Charles Stuart or his wife -- and I don't blame her .
She won't stay there , not likely .
Probably she'll go and live in town .
Strange she never married .
She was reckoned handsome , and had plenty of beaus at one time . ''
Jeffrey swung out of the group and started homeward with his dog .
To stand by and hear Sara Stuart discussed after this fashion was more than he could endure .
The men idly watched his tall , erect figure as he went along the valley .
`` Queer chap , Jeff , '' said Alec Churchill reflectively .
`` Jeff's all right , '' said Christopher in a patronizing way .
`` There ain't a better man or neighbour alive .
I've lived next farm to him for thirty years , so I ought to know .
But he's queer sartainly -- not like other people -- kind of unsociable .
He don't care for a thing ` cept dogs and reading and mooning round woods and fields .
That ain't natural , you know .
But I must say he's a good farmer .
He's got the best farm in Bayside , and that's a real nice house he put up on it .
Ain't it an odd thing he never married ?
Never seemed to have no notion of it .
I can't recollect of Jeff Miller's ever courting anybody .
That's another unnatural thing about him . ''
`` I've always thought that Jeff thought himself a cut or two above the rest of us , '' said Tom Scovel with a sneer .
`` Maybe he thinks the Bayside girls ain't good enough for him . ''
`` There ain't no such dirty pride about Jeff , '' pronounced Christopher conclusively .
`` And the Millers are the best family hereabouts , leaving the kunnel's out .
And Jeff's well off -- nobody knows how well , I reckon , but I can guess , being his land neighbour .
Jeff ain't no fool nor loafer , if he is a bit queer . ''
Meanwhile , the object of these remarks was striding homeward and thinking , not of the men behind him , but of Sara Stuart .
He must go to her at once .
He had not intruded on her since her father's death , thinking her sorrow too great for him to meddle with .
But this was different .
Perhaps she needed the advice or assistance only he could give .
To whom else in Bayside could she turn for it but to him , her old friend ?
Was it possible that she must leave Pinehurst ?
The thought struck cold dismay to his soul .
How could he bear his life if she went away ?
He had loved Sara Stuart from childhood .
He remembered vividly the day he had first seen her -- a spring day , much like this one had been ; he , a boy of eight , had gone with his father to the big , sunshiny hill field and he had searched for birds ' nests in the little fir copses along the crest while his father plowed .
He had so come upon her , sitting on the fence under the pines at the back of Pinehurst -- a child of six in a dress of purple cloth .
Her long , light brown curls fell over her shoulders and rippled sleekly back from her calm little brow ; her eyes were large and greyish blue , straight-gazing and steadfast .
To the end of his life the boy was to carry in his heart the picture she made there under the pines .
`` Little boy , '' she had said , with a friendly smile , `` will you show me where the mayflowers grow ? ''
Shyly enough he had assented , and they set out together for the barrens beyond the field , where the arbutus trailed its stars of sweetness under the dusty dead grasses and withered leaves of the old year .
The boy was thrilled with delight .
She was a fairy queen who thus graciously smiled on him and chattered blithely as they searched for mayflowers in the fresh spring sunshine .
He thought it a wonderful thing that it had so chanced .
It overjoyed him to give the choicest dusters he found into her slim , waxen little fingers , and watch her eyes grow round with pleasure in them .
When the sun began to lower over the beeches she had gone home with her arms full of arbutus , but she had turned at the edge of the pineland and waved her hand at him .
That night , when he told his mother of the little girl he had met on the hill , she had hoped anxiously that he had been `` very polite , '' for the little girl was a daughter of Colonel Stuart , newly come to Pinehurst .
Jeffrey , reflecting , had not been certain that he had been polite ; `` But I am sure she liked me , '' he said gravely .
A few days later a message came from Mrs. Stuart on the hill to Mrs. Miller in the valley .
Would she let her little boy go up now and then to play with Sara ?
Sara was very lonely because she had no playmates .
So Jeff , overjoyed , had gone to his divinity's very home , where the two children played together many a day .
All through their childhood they had been fast friends .
Sara's parents placed no bar to their intimacy .
They had soon concluded that little Jeff Miller was a very good playmate for Sara .
He was gentle , well-behaved , and manly .
Sara never went to the district school which Jeff attended ; she had her governess at home .
With no other boy or girl in Bayside did she form any friendship , but her loyalty to Jeff never wavered .
As for Jeff , he worshipped her and would have done anything she commanded .
He belonged to her from the day they had hunted arbutus on the hill .
When Sara was fifteen she had gone away to school .
Jeff had missed her sorely .
For four years he saw her only in the summers , and each year she had seemed taller , statelier , further from him .
When she graduated her father took her abroad for two years ; then she came home , a lovely , high-bred girl , dimpling on the threshold of womanhood ; and Jeffrey Miller was face to face with two bitter facts .
One was that he loved her -- not with the boy-and-girl love of long ago , but with the love of a man for the one woman in the world ; and the other was that she was as far beyond his reach as one of those sunset stars of which she had always reminded him in her pure , clear-shining loveliness .
He looked these facts unflinchingly in the face until he had grown used to them , and then he laid down his course for himself .
He loved Sara -- and he did not wish to conquer his love , even if it had been possible .
It were better to love her , whom he could never win , than to love and be loved by any other woman .
His great office in life was to be her friend , humble and unexpectant ; to be at hand if she should need him for ever so trifling a service ; never to presume , always to be faithful .
Sara had not forgotten her old friend .
But their former comradeship was now impossible ; they could be friends , but never again companions .
Sara's life was full and gay ; she had interests in which he had no share ; her social world was utterly apart from his ; she was of the hill and its traditions , he was of the valley and its people .
The democracy of childhood past , there was no common ground on which they might meet .
Only one thing Jeffrey had found it impossible to contemplate calmly .
Some day Sara would marry -- a man who was her equal , who sat at her father's table as a guest .
In spite of himself , Jeffrey's heart filled with hot rebellion at the thought ; it was like a desecration and a robbery .
But , as the years went by , this thing he dreaded did not happen .
Sara did not marry , although gossip assigned her many suitors not unworthy of her .
She and Jeffrey were always friends , although they met but seldom .
Sometimes she sent him a book ; it was his custom to search for the earliest mayflowers and take them to her ; once in a long while they met and talked of many things .
Jeffrey's calendar from year to year was red-lettered by these small happenings , of which nobody knew , or , knowing , would have cared .
So he and Sara drifted out of youth , together yet apart .
Her mother had died , and Sara was the gracious , stately mistress of Pinehurst , which grew quieter as the time went on ; the lovers ceased to come , and holiday friends grew few ; with the old colonel's failing health the gaieties and lavish entertaining ceased .
Jeffrey thought that Sara must often be lonely , but she never said so ; she remained sweet , serene , calm-eyed , like the child he had met on the hill .
Only , now and then , Jeffrey fancied he saw a shadow on her face -- a shadow so faint and fleeting that only the eye of an unselfish , abiding love , made clear-sighted by patient years , could have seen it .
It hurt him , that shadow ; he would have given anything in his power to have banished it .
And now this long friendship was to be broken .
Sara was going away .
At first he had thought only of her pain , but now his own filled his heart .
How could he live without her ?
How could he dwell in the valley knowing that she had gone from the hill ?
Never to see her light shine down on him through the northern gap in the pines at night !
Never to feel that perhaps her eyes rested on him now and then as he went about his work in the valley fields !
Never to stoop with a glad thrill over the first spring flowers because it was his privilege to take them to her !
Jeffrey groaned aloud .
No , he could not go up to see her that night ; he must wait -- he must strengthen himself .
Then his heart rebuked him .
This was selfishness ; this was putting his own feelings before hers -- a thing he had sworn never to do .
Perhaps she needed him -- perhaps she had wondered why he had not come to offer her such poor service as might be in his power .
He turned and went down through the orchard lane , taking the old field-path across the valley and up the hill , which he had traversed so often and so joyfully in boyhood .
It was dark now , and a few stars were shining in the silvery sky .
The wind sighed among the pines as he walked under them .
Sometimes he felt that he must turn back -- that his pain was going to master him ; then he forced himself to go on .
The old grey house where Sara lived seemed bleak and stricken in the dull light , with its leafless vines clinging to it .
There were no lights in it .
It looked like a home left soulless .
Jeffrey went around to the garden door and knocked .
He had expected the maid to open it , put Sara herself came .
`` Why , Jeff , '' she said , with pleasure in her tones .
`` I am so glad to see you .
I have been wondering why you had not come before . ''
`` I did not think you would want to see me yet , '' he said hurriedly .
`` I have thought about you every hour -- but I feared to intrude . '' ''
You couldn't intrude , '' she said gently .
`` Yes , I have wanted to see you , Jeff .
Come into the library . ''
He followed her into the room where they had always sat in his rare calls .
Sara lighted the lamp on the table .
As the light shot up she stood clearly revealed in it -- a tall , slender woman in a trailing gown of grey .
Even a stranger , not knowing her age , would have guessed it to be what it was , yet it would have been hard to say what gave the impression of maturity .
Her face was quite unlined -- a little pale , perhaps , with more finely cut outlines than those of youth .
Her eyes were clear and bright ; her abundant brown hair waved back from her face in the same curves that Jeffrey had noted in the purple-gowned child of six , under the pines .
Perhaps it was the fine patience and serenity in her face that told her tale of years .
Youth can never acquire it .
Her eyes brightened when she saw the mayflowers he carried .
She came and took them from him , and her hands touched his , sending a little thrill of joy through him .
`` How lovely they are !
And the first I have seen this spring .
You always bring me the first , don't you , Jeff ?
Do you remember the first day we spent picking mayflowers together ? ''
Jeff smiled .
Could he forget ?
But something held him back from speech .
Sara put the flowers in a vase on the table , but slipped one starry pink cluster into the lace on her breast .
She came and sat down beside Jeffrey ; he saw that her beautiful eyes had been weeping , and that there were lines of pain around her lips .
Some impulse that would not be denied made him lean over and take her hand .
She left it unresistingly in his clasp .
`` I am very lonely now , Jeff , '' she said sadly .
`` Father has gone .
I have no friends left . ''
`` You have me , '' said Jeffrey quietly .
`` Yes .
I shouldn't have said that .
You are my friend , I know , Jeff .
But , but -- I must leave Pinehurst , you know . ''
`` I learned that tonight for the first time , '' he answered .
`` Did you ever come to a place where everything seemed ended -- where it seemed that there was nothing -- simply nothing -- left , Jeff ? ''
she said wistfully .
`` But , no , it couldn't seem so to a man .
Only a woman could fully understand what I mean .
That is how I feel now .
While I had Father to live for it wasn't so hard .
But now there is nothing .
And I must go away . ''
`` Is there anything I can do ? ''
muttered Jeffrey miserably .
He knew now that he had made a mistake in coming tonight ; he could not help her .
His own pain had unmanned him .
Presently he would say something foolish or selfish in spite of himself .
Sara turned her eyes on him .
`` There is nothing anybody can do , Jeff , '' she said piteously .
Her eyes , those clear child-eyes , filled with tears .
`` I shall be braver -- stronger -- after a while .
But just now I have no strength left .
I feel like a lost , helpless child .
Oh , Jeff ! ''
She put her slender hands over her face and sobbed .
Every sob cut Jeffrey to the heart .
`` Don't -- don't , Sara , '' he said huskily .
`` I can't bear to see you suffer so .
I 'd die for you if it would do you any good .
I love you -- I love you !
I never meant to tell you so , but it is the truth .
I oughtn't to tell you now .
Don't think that I 'm trying to take any advantage of your loneliness and sorrow .
I know -- I have always known -- that you are far above me .
But that couldn't prevent my loving you -- just humbly loving you , asking nothing else .
You may be angry with my presumption , but I can't help telling you that I love you .
That's all .
I just want you to know it . ''
Sara had turned away her head .
Jeffrey was overcome with contrition .
Ah , he had no business to speak so -- he had spoiled the devotion of years .
Who was he that he should have dared to love her ?
Silence alone had justified his love , and now he had lost that justification .
She would despise him .
He had forfeited her friendship for ever .
`` Are you angry , Sara ? ''
he questioned sadly , after a silence .
`` I think I am , '' said Sara .
She kept her stately head averted .
`` If -- if you have loved me , Jeff , why did you never tell me so before ? ''
`` How could I dare ? ''
he said gravely .
`` I knew I could never win you -- that I had no right to dream of you so .
Oh , Sara , don't be angry !
My love has been reverent and humble .
I have asked nothing .
I ask nothing now but your friendship .
Don't take that from me , Sara .
Don't be angry with me . ''
`` I am angry , '' repeated Sara , `` and I think I have a right to be . ''
`` Perhaps so , '' he said simply , `` but not because I have loved you .
Such love as mine ought to anger no woman , Sara .
But you have a right to be angry with me for presuming to put it into words .
I should not have done so -- but I could not help it .
It rushed to my lips in spite of me .
Forgive me . ''
`` I don't know whether I can forgive you for not telling me before , '' said Sara steadily . ''
That is what I have to forgive -- not your speaking at last , even if it was dragged from you against your will .
Did you think I would make you such a very poor wife , Jeff , that you would not ask me to marry you ? ''
`` Sara ! ''
he said , aghast .
`` I -- I -- you were as far above me as a star in the sky -- I never dreamed -- I never hoped -- '' `` That I could care for you ? ''
said Sara , looking round at last .
`` Then you were more modest than a man ought to be , Jeff .
I did not know that you loved me , or I should have found some way to make you speak out long ago .
I should not have let you waste all these years .
I've loved you -- ever since we picked mayflowers on the hill , I think -- ever since I came home from school , I know .
I never cared for anyone else -- although I tried to , when I thought you didn't care for me .
It mattered nothing to me that the world may have thought there was some social difference between us .
There , Jeff , you can not accuse me of not making my meaning plain . ''
`` Sara , '' he whispered , wondering , bewildered , half-afraid to believe this unbelievable joy .
`` I 'm not half worthy of you -- but -- but '' -- he bent forward and put his arm around her , looking straight into her clear , unshrinking eyes .
`` Sara , will you be my wife ? ''
`` Yes . ''
She said the word clearly and truly .
`` And I will think myself a proud and happy and honoured woman to be so , Jeff .
Oh , I don't shrink from telling you the truth , you see .
You mean too much to me for me to dissemble it .
I've hidden it for eighteen years because I didn't think you wanted to hear it , but I'll give myself the delight of saying it frankly now . ''
She lifted her delicate , high-bred face , fearless love shining in every lineament , to his , and they exchanged their first kiss .
