Miss Rosetta Ellis , with her front hair in curl-papers , and her back hair bound with a checked apron , was out in her breezy side yard under the firs , shaking her parlor rugs , when Mr. Nathan Patterson drove in .
Miss Rosetta had seen him coming down the long red hill , but she had not supposed he would be calling at that time of the morning .
So she had not run .
Miss Rosetta always ran if anybody called and her front hair was in curl-papers ; and , though the errand of the said caller might be life or death , he or she had to wait until Miss Rosetta had taken her hair out .
Everybody in Avonlea knew this , because everybody in Avonlea knew everything about everybody else .
But Mr. Patterson had wheeled into the lane so quickly and unexpectedly that Miss Rosetta had had no time to run ; so , twitching off the checked apron , she stood her ground as calmly as might be under the disagreeable consciousness of curl-papers .
`` Good morning , Miss Ellis , '' said Mr. Patterson , so somberly that Miss Rosetta instantly felt that he was the bearer of bad news .
Usually Mr. Patterson's face was as broad and beaming as a harvest moon .
Now his expression was very melancholy and his voice positively sepulchral .
`` Good morning , '' returned Miss Rosetta , crisply and cheerfully .
She , at any rate , would not go into eclipse until she knew the reason therefor .
`` It is a fine day . ''
`` A very fine day , '' assented Mr. Patterson , solemnly .
`` I have just come from the Wheeler place , Miss Ellis , and I regret to say -- '' `` Charlotte is sick ! ''
cried Miss Rosetta , rapidly .
`` Charlotte has got another spell with her heart !
I knew it !
I've been expecting to hear it !
Any woman that drives about the country as much as she does is liable to heart disease at any moment .
I never go outside of my gate but I meet her gadding off somewhere .
Goodness knows who looks after her place .
I shouldn't like to trust as much to a hired man as she does .
Well , it is very kind of you , Mr. Patterson , to put yourself out to the extent of calling to tell me that Charlotte is sick , but I don't really see why you should take so much trouble -- I really don't .
It doesn't matter to me whether Charlotte is sick or whether she isn't .
YOU know that perfectly well , Mr. Patterson , if anybody does .
When Charlotte went and got married , on the sly , to that good-for-nothing Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` Mrs. Wheeler is quite well , '' interrupted Mr. Patterson desperately .
`` Quite well .
Nothing at all the matter with her , in fact .
I only -- '' `` Then what do you mean by coming here and telling me she wasn't , and frightening me half to death ? ''
demanded Miss Rosetta , indignantly .
`` My own heart isn't very strong -- it runs in our family -- and my doctor warned me to avoid all shocks and excitement .
I don't want to be excited , Mr. Patterson .
I won't be excited , not even if Charlotte has another spell .
It's perfectly useless for you to try to excite me , Mr. Patterson . ''
`` Bless the woman , I 'm not trying to excite anybody ! ''
declared Mr. Patterson in exasperation .
`` I merely called to tell you -- '' `` To tell me WHAT ? ''
said Miss Rosetta .
`` How much longer do you mean to keep me in suspense , Mr. Patterson .
No doubt you have abundance of spare time , but -- I -- have NOT . '' ''
-- that your sister , Mrs. Wheeler , has had a letter from a cousin of yours , and she's in Charlottetown .
Mrs. Roberts , I think her name is -- '' `` Jane Roberts , '' broke in Miss Rosetta .
`` Jane Ellis she was , before she was married .
What was she writing to Charlotte about ?
Not that I want to know , of course .
I 'm not interested in Charlotte's correspondence , goodness knows .
But if Jane had anything in particular to write about she should have written to ME .
I am the oldest .
Charlotte had no business to get a letter from Jane Roberts without consulting me .
It's just like her underhanded ways .
She got married the same way .
Never said a word to me about it , but just sneaked off with that unprincipled Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` Mrs. Roberts is very ill .
I understand , '' persisted Mr. Patterson , nobly resolved to do what he had come to do , `` dying , in fact , and -- '' `` Jane ill !
Jane dying ! ''
exclaimed Miss Rosetta .
`` Why , she was the healthiest girl I ever knew !
But then I've never seen her , nor heard from her , since she got married fifteen years ago .
I dare say her husband was a brute and neglected her , and she's pined away by slow degrees .
I've no faith in husbands .
Look at Charlotte !
Everybody knows how Jacob Wheeler used her .
To be sure , she deserved it , but -- '' `` Mrs. Roberts ' husband is dead , '' said Mr. Patterson .
`` Died about two months ago , I understand , and she has a little baby six months old , and she thought perhaps Mrs. Wheeler would take it for old times ' sake -- '' `` Did Charlotte ask you to call and tell me this ? ''
demanded Miss Rosetta eagerly .
`` No ; she just told me what was in the letter .
She didn't mention you ; but I thought , perhaps , you ought to be told -- '' `` I knew it , '' said Miss Rosetta in a tone of bitter assurance .
`` I could have told you so .
Charlotte wouldn't even let me know that Jane was ill .
Charlotte would be afraid I would want to get the baby , seeing that Jane and I were such intimate friends long ago .
And who has a better right to it than me , I should like to know ?
Ain't I the oldest ?
And haven't I had experience in bringing up babies ?
Charlotte needn't think she is going to run the affairs of our family just because she happened to get married .
Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` I must be going , '' said Mr. Patterson , gathering up his reins thankfully .
`` I am much obliged to you for coming to tell me about Jane , '' said Miss Rosetta , `` even though you have wasted a lot of precious time getting it out .
If it hadn't been for you I suppose I should never have known it at all .
As it is , I shall start for town just as soon as I can get ready . ''
`` You'll have to hurry if you want to get ahead of Mrs. Wheeler , '' advised Mr. Patterson .
`` She's packing her trunk and going on the morning train . ''
`` I'll pack a valise and go on the afternoon train , '' retorted Miss Rosetta triumphantly .
`` I'll show Charlotte she isn't running the Ellis affairs .
She married out of them into the Wheelers .
She can attend to them .
Jacob Wheeler was the most -- '' But Mr. Patterson had driven away .
He felt that he had done his duty in the face of fearful odds , and he did not want to hear anything more about Jacob Wheeler .
Rosetta Ellis and Charlotte Wheeler had not exchanged a word for ten years .
Before that time they had been devoted to each other , living together in the little Ellis cottage on the White Sands road , as they had done ever since their parents ' death .
The trouble began when Jacob Wheeler had commenced to pay attention to Charlotte , the younger and prettier of two women who had both ceased to be either very young or very pretty .
Rosetta had been bitterly opposed to the match from the first .
She vowed she had no use for Jacob Wheeler .
There were not lacking malicious people to hint that this was because the aforesaid Jacob Wheeler had selected the wrong sister upon whom to bestow his affections .
Be that as it might , Miss Rosetta certainly continued to render the course of Jacob Wheeler's true love exceedingly rough and tumultuous .
The end of it was that Charlotte had gone quietly away one morning and married Jacob Wheeler without Miss Rosetta's knowing anything about it .
Miss Rosetta had never forgiven her for it , and Charlotte had never forgiven the things Rosetta had said to her when she and Jacob returned to the Ellis cottage .
Since then the sisters had been avowed and open foes , the only difference being that Miss Rosetta aired her grievances publicly , in season and out of season , while Charlotte was never heard to mention Rosetta's name .
Even the death of Jacob Wheeler , five years after the marriage , had not healed the breach .
Miss Rosetta took out her curl-papers , packed her valise , and caught the late afternoon train for Charlottetown , as she had threatened .
All the way there she sat rigidly upright in her seat and held imaginary dialogues with Charlotte in her mind , running something like this on her part : -- `` No , Charlotte Wheeler , you are not going to have Jane's baby , and you 're very much mistaken if you think so .
Oh , all right -- we'll see !
You don't know anything about babies , even if you are married .
I do .
Didn't I take William Ellis's baby , when his wife died ?
Tell me that , Charlotte Wheeler !
And didn't the little thing thrive with me , and grow strong and healthy ?
Yes , even you have to admit that it did , Charlotte Wheeler .
And yet you have the presumption to think that you ought to have Jane's baby !
Yes , it is presumption , Charlotte Wheeler .
And when William Ellis got married again , and took the baby , didn't the child cling to me and cry as if I was its real mother ?
You know it did , Charlotte Wheeler .
I 'm going to get and keep Jane's baby in spite of you , Charlotte Wheeler , and I 'd like to see you try to prevent me -- you that went and got married and never so much as let your own sister know of it !
If I had got married in such a fashion , Charlotte Wheeler , I 'd be ashamed to look anybody in the face for the rest of my natural life ! ''
Miss Rosetta was so interested in thus laying down the law to Charlotte , and in planning out the future life of Jane's baby , that she didn't find the journey to Charlottetown so long or tedious as might have been expected , considering her haste .
She soon found her way to the house where her cousin lived .
There , to her dismay and real sorrow , she learned that Mrs. Roberts had died at four o'clock that afternoon .
`` She seemed dreadful anxious to live until she heard from some of her folks out in Avonlea , '' said the woman who gave Miss Rosetta the information .
`` She had written to them about her little girl .
She was my sister-in-law , and she lived with me ever since her husband died .
I've done my best for her ; but I've a big family of my own and I can't see how I 'm to keep the child .
Poor Jane looked and longed for some one to come from Avonlea , but she couldn't hold out .
A patient , suffering creature she was ! ''
`` I 'm her cousin , '' said Miss Rosetta , wiping her eyes , `` and I have come for the baby .
I'll take it home with me after the funeral ; and , if you please , Mrs. Gordon , let me see it right away , so it can get accustomed to me .
Poor Jane !
I wish I could have got here in time to see her , she and I were such friends long ago .
We were far more intimate and confidential than ever her and Charlotte was .
Charlotte knows that , too ! ''
The vim with which Miss Rosetta snapped this out rather amazed Mrs. Gordon , who couldn't understand it at all .
But she took Miss Rosetta upstairs to the room where the baby was sleeping .
`` Oh , the little darling , '' cried Miss Rosetta , all her old maidishness and oddity falling away from her like a garment , and all her innate and denied motherhood shining out in her face like a transforming illumination .
`` Oh , the sweet , dear , pretty little thing ! ''
The baby was a darling -- a six-months ' old beauty with little golden ringlets curling and glistening all over its tiny head .
As Miss Rosetta hung over it , it opened its eyes and then held out its tiny hands to her with a gurgle of confidence .
`` Oh , you sweetest ! ''
said Miss Rosetta rapturously , gathering it up in her arms .
`` You belong to me , darling -- never , never , to that under-handed Charlotte !
What is its name , Mrs. Gordon ? ''
`` It wasn't named , '' said Mrs. Gordon .
`` Guess you'll have to name it yourself , Miss Ellis . ''
`` Camilla Jane , '' said Miss Rosetta without a moment's hesitation .
`` Jane after its mother , of course ; and I have always thought Camilla the prettiest name in the world .
Charlotte would be sure to give it some perfectly heathenish name .
I wouldn't put it past her calling the poor innocent Mehitable . ''
Miss Rosetta decided to stay in Charlottetown until after the funeral .
That night she lay with the baby on her arm , listening with joy to its soft little breathing .
She did not sleep or wish to sleep .
Her waking fancies were more alluring than any visions of dreamland .
Moreover , she gave a spice to them by occasionally snapping some vicious sentences out loud at Charlotte .
Miss Rosetta fully expected Charlotte along on the following morning and girded herself for the fray ; but no Charlotte appeared .
Night came ; no Charlotte .
Another morning and no Charlotte .
Miss Rosetta was hopelessly puzzled .
What had happened ?
Dear , dear , had Charlotte taken a bad heart spell , on hearing that she , Rosetta , had stolen a march on her to Charlottetown ?
It was quite likely .
You never knew what to expect of a woman who had married Jacob Wheeler !
The truth was , that the very evening Miss Rosetta had left Avonlea Mrs. Jacob Wheeler's hired man had broken his leg and had had to be conveyed to his distant home on a feather bed in an express wagon .
Mrs. Wheeler could not leave home until she had obtained another hired man .
Consequently , it was the evening after the funeral when Mrs. Wheeler whisked up the steps of the Gordon house and met Miss Rosetta coming out with a big white bundle in her arms .
The eyes of the two women met defiantly .
Miss Rosetta's face wore an air of triumph , chastened by a remembrance of the funeral that afternoon .
Mrs. Wheeler's face , except for eyes , was as expressionless as it usually was .
Unlike the tall , fair , fat Miss Rosetta , Mrs. Wheeler was small and dark and thin , with an eager , careworn face .
`` How is Jane ? ''
she said abruptly , breaking the silence of ten years in saying it .
`` Jane is dead and buried , poor thing , '' said Miss Rosetta calmly .
`` I am taking her baby , little Camilla Jane , home with me . ''
`` The baby belongs to me , '' cried Mrs. Wheeler passionately .
`` Jane wrote to me about her .
Jane meant that I should have her .
I've come for her . ''
`` You'll go back without her then , '' said Miss Rosetta , serene in the possession that is nine points of the law .
`` The child is mine , and she is going to stay mine .
You can make up your mind to that , Charlotte Wheeler .
A woman who eloped to get married isn't fit to be trusted with a baby , anyhow .
Jacob Wheeler -- '' But Mrs. Wheeler had rushed past into the house .
Miss Rosetta composedly stepped into the cab and drove to the station .
She fairly bridled with triumph ; and underneath the triumph ran a queer undercurrent of satisfaction over the fact that Charlotte had spoken to her at last .
Miss Rosetta would not look at this satisfaction , or give it a name , but it was there .
Miss Rosetta arrived safely back in Avonlea with Camilla Jane and within ten hours everybody in the settlement knew the whole story , and every woman who could stand on her feet had been up to the Ellis cottage to see the baby .
Mrs. Wheeler arrived home twenty-four hours later , and silently betook herself to her farm .
When her Avonlea neighbors sympathized with her in her disappointment , she said nothing , but looked all the more darkly determined .
Also , a week later , Mr. William J. Blair , the Carmody storekeeper , had an odd tale to tell .
Mrs. Wheeler had come to the store and bought a lot of fine flannel and muslin and valenciennes .
Now , what in the name of time , did Mrs. Wheeler want with such stuff ?
Mr. William J. Blair couldn't make head or tail of it , and it worried him .
Mr. Blair was so accustomed to know what everybody bought anything for that such a mystery quite upset him .
Miss Rosetta had exulted in the possession of little Camilla Jane for a month , and had been so happy that she had almost given up inveighing against Charlotte .
Her conversations , instead of tending always to Jacob Wheeler , now ran Camilla Janeward ; and this , folks thought , was an improvement .
One afternoon , Miss Rosetta , leaving Camilla Jane snugly sleeping in her cradle in the kitchen , had slipped down to the bottom of the garden to pick her currants .
The house was hidden from her sight by the copse of cherry trees , but she had left the kitchen window open , so that she could hear the baby if it awakened and cried .
Miss Rosetta sang happily as she picked her currants .
For the first time since Charlotte had married Jacob Wheeler Miss Rosetta felt really happy -- so happy that at there was no room in her heart for bitterness .
In fancy she looked forward to the coming years , and saw Camilla Jane growing up into girlhood , fair and lovable .
`` She'll be a beauty , '' reflected Miss Rosetta complacently .
`` Jane was a handsome girl .
She shall always be dressed as nice as I can manage it , and I'll get her an organ , and have her take painting and music lessons .
Parties , too !
I'll give her a real coming-out party when she's eighteen and the very prettiest dress that's to be had .
Dear me , I can hardly wait for her to grow up , though she's sweet enough now to make one wish she could stay a baby forever . ''
When Miss Rosetta returned to the kitchen , her eyes fell on an empty cradle .
Camilla Jane was gone !
Miss Rosetta promptly screamed .
She understood at a glance what had happened .
Six months ' old babies do not get out of their cradles and disappear through closed doors without any assistance .
`` Charlotte has been here , '' gasped Miss Rosetta .
`` Charlotte has stolen Camilla Jane !
I might have expected it .
I might have known when I heard that story about her buying muslin and flannel .
It's just like Charlotte to do such an underhand trick .
But I'll go after her !
I'll show her !
She'll find out she has got Rosetta Ellis to deal with and no Wheeler ! ''
Like a frantic creature and wholly forgetting that her hair was in curl-papers , Miss Rosetta hurried up the hill and down the shore road to the Wheeler Farm -- a place she had never visited in her life before .
The wind was off-shore and only broke the bay's surface into long silvery ripples , and sent sheeny shadows flying out across it from every point and headland , like transparent wings .
The little gray house , so close to the purring waves that in storms their spray splashed over its very doorstep , seemed deserted .
Miss Rosetta pounded lustily on the front door .
This producing no result , she marched around to the back door and knocked .
No answer .
Miss Rosetta tried the door .
It was locked .
`` Guilty conscience , '' sniffed Miss Rosetta .
`` Well , I shall stay here until I see that perfidious Charlotte , if I have to camp in the yard all night . ''
Miss Rosetta was quite capable of doing this , but she was spared the necessity ; walking boldly up to the kitchen window , and peering through it , she felt her heart swell with anger as she beheld Charlotte sitting calmly by the table with Camilla Jane on her knee .
Beside her was a befrilled and bemuslined cradle , and on a chair lay the garments in which Miss Rosetta had dressed the baby .
It was clad in an entirely new outfit , and seemed quite at home with its new possessor .
It was laughing and cooing , and making little dabs at her with its dimpled hands .
`` Charlotte Wheeler , '' cried Miss Rosetta , rapping sharply on the window-pane .
`` I've come for that child !
Bring her out to me at once -- at once , I say !
How dare you come to my house and steal a baby ?
You 're no better than a common burglar .
Give me Camilla Jane , I say ! ''
Charlotte came over to the window with the baby in her arms and triumph glittering in her eyes .
`` There is no such child as Camilla Jane here , '' she said .
`` This is Barbara Jane .
She belongs to me . ''
With that Mrs. Wheeler pulled down the shade .
Miss Rosetta had to go home .
There was nothing else for her to do .
On her way she met Mr. Patterson and told him in full the story of her wrongs .
It was all over Avonlea by night , and created quite a sensation .
Avonlea had not had such a toothsome bit of gossip for a long time .
Mrs. Wheeler exulted in the possession of Barbara Jane for six weeks , during which Miss Rosetta broke her heart with loneliness and longing , and meditated futile plots for the recovery of the baby .
It was hopeless to think of stealing it back or she would have tried to .
The hired man at the Wheeler place reported that Mrs. Wheeler never left it night or day for a single moment .
She even carried it with her when she went to milk the cows .
`` But my turn will come , '' said Miss Rosetta grimly .
`` Camilla Jane is mine , and if she was called Barbara for a century it wouldn't alter that fact !
Barbara , indeed !
Why not have called her Methusaleh and have done with it ? ''
One afternoon in October , when Miss Rosetta was picking her apples and thinking drearily about lost Camilla Jane , a woman came running breathlessly down the hill and into the yard .
Miss Rosetta gave an exclamation of amazement and dropped her basket of apples .
Of all incredible things !
The woman was Charlotte -- Charlotte who had never set foot on the grounds of the Ellis cottage since her marriage ten years ago , Charlotte , bare-headed , wild-eyed , distraught , wringing her hands and sobbing .
Miss Rosetta flew to meet her .
`` You've scalded Camilla Jane to death ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` I always knew you would -- always expected it ! ''
`` Oh , for heaven's sake , come quick , Rosetta ! ''
gasped Charlotte .
`` Barbara Jane is in convulsions and I don't know what to do .
The hired man has gone for the doctor .
You were the nearest , so I came to you .
Jenny White was there when they came on , so I left her and ran .
Oh , Rosetta , come , come , if you have a spark of humanity in you !
You know what to do for convulsions -- you saved the Ellis baby when it had them .
Oh , come and save Barbara Jane ! ''
`` You mean Camilla Jane , I presume ? ''
said Miss Rosetta firmly , in spite of her agitation .
For a second Charlotte Wheeler hesitated .
Then she said passionately : `` Yes , yes , Camilla Jane -- any name you like !
Only come . ''
Miss Rosetta went , and not a moment too soon , either .
The doctor lived eight miles away and the baby was very bad .
The two women and Jenny White worked over her for hours .
It was not until dark , when the baby was sleeping soundly and the doctor had gone , after telling Miss Rosetta that she had saved the child's life , that a realization of the situation came home to them .
`` Well , '' said Miss Rosetta , dropping into an armchair with a long sigh of weariness , `` I guess you'll admit now , Charlotte Wheeler , that you are hardly a fit person to have charge of a baby , even if you had to go and steal it from me .
I should think your conscience would reproach you -- that is , if any woman who would marry Jacob Wheeler in such an underhanded fashion has a -- '' `` I -- I wanted the baby , '' sobbed Charlotte , tremulously .
`` I was so lonely here .
I didn't think it was any harm to take her , because Jane gave her to me in her letter .
But you have saved her life , Rosetta , and you -- you can have her back , although it will break my heart to give her up .
But , oh , Rosetta , won't you let me come and see her sometimes ?
I love her so I can't bear to give her up entirely . ''
`` Charlotte , '' said Miss Rosetta firmly , `` the most sensible thing for you to do is just to come back with the baby .
You are worried to death trying to run this farm with the debt Jacob Wheeler left on it for you .
Sell it , and come home with me .
And we'll both have the baby then . ''
`` Oh , Rosetta , I 'd love to , '' faltered Charlotte .
`` I've -- I've wanted to be good friends with you again so much .
But I thought you were so hard and bitter you 'd never make up . ''
`` Maybe I've talked too much , '' conceded Miss Rosetta , `` but you ought to know me well enough to know I didn't mean a word of it .
It was your never saying anything , no matter what I said , that riled me up so bad .
Let bygones be bygones , and come home , Charlotte . ''
`` I will , '' said Charlotte resolutely , wiping away her tears .
`` I 'm sick of living here and putting up with hired men .
I'll be real glad to go home , Rosetta , and that's the truth .
I've had a hard enough time .
I s ` pose you'll say I deserved it ; but I was fond of Jacob , and -- '' `` Of course , of course .
Why shouldn't you be ? ''
said Miss Rosetta briskly .
`` I 'm sure Jacob Wheeler was a good enough soul , if he was a little slack-twisted .
I 'd like to hear anybody say a word against him in my presence .
Look at that blessed child , Charlotte .
Isn't she the sweetest thing ?
I 'm desperate glad you are coming back home , Charlotte .
I've never been able to put up a decent mess of mustard pickles since you went away , and you were always such a hand with them !
We'll be real snug and cozy again -- you and me and little Camilla Barbara Jane . ''
