Dorinda had been home for a whole wonderful week and the little Pages were beginning to feel acquainted with her .
When a girl goes away when she is ten and doesn't come back until she is fifteen , it is only to be expected that her family should regard her as somewhat of a stranger , especially when she is really a Page , and they are really all Carters except for the name .
Dorinda had been only ten when her Aunt Mary -- on the Carter side -- had written to Mrs. Page , asking her to let Dorinda come to her for the winter .
Mrs. Page , albeit she was poor -- nobody but herself knew how poor -- and a widow with five children besides Dorinda , hesitated at first .
She was afraid , with good reason , that the winter might stretch into other seasons ; but Mary had lost her own only little girl in the summer , and Mrs. Page shuddered at the thought of what her loneliness must be .
So , to comfort her , Mrs. Page had let Dorinda go , stipulating that she must come home in the spring .
In the spring , when Dorinda's bed of violets was growing purple under the lilac bush , Aunt Mary wrote again .
Dorinda was contented and happy , she said .
Would not Emily let her stay for the summer ?
Mrs. Page cried bitterly over that letter and took sad counsel with herself .
To let Dorinda stay with her aunt for the summer really meant , she knew , to let her stay altogether .
Mrs. Page was finding it harder and harder to get along ; there was so little and the children needed so much ; Dorinda would have a good home with her Aunt Mary if she could only prevail on her rebellious mother heart to give her up .
In the end she agreed to let Dorinda stay for the summer -- and Dorinda had never been home since .
But now Dorinda had come back to the little white house on the hill at Willowdale , set back from the road in a smother of apple trees and vines .
Aunt Mary had died very suddenly and her only son , Dorinda's cousin , had gone to Japan .
There was nothing for Dorinda to do save to come home , to enter again into her old unfilled place in her mother's heart , and win a new place in the hearts of the brothers and sisters who barely remembered her at all .
Leicester had been nine and Jean seven when Dorinda went away ; now they were respectively fourteen and twelve .
At first they were a little shy with this big , practically brand-new sister , but this soon wore off .
Nobody could be shy long with Dorinda ; nobody could help liking her .
She was so brisk and jolly and sympathetic -- a real Page , so everybody said -- while the brothers and sisters were Carter to their marrow ; Carters with fair hair and blue eyes , and small , fine , wistful features ; but Dorinda had merry black eyes , plump , dusky-red cheeks , and a long braid of glossy dark hair , which was perpetually being twitched from one shoulder to another as Dorinda whisked about the house on domestic duties intent .
In a week Dorinda felt herself one of the family again , with all the cares and responsibilities thereof resting on her strong young shoulders .
Dorinda and her mother talked matters out fully one afternoon over their sewing , in the sunny south room where the winds got lost among the vines halfway through the open window .
Mrs. Page sighed and said she really did not know what to do .
Dorinda did not sigh ; she did not know just what to do either , but there must be something that could be done -- there is always something that can be done , if one can only find it .
Dorinda sewed hard and pursed up her red lips determinedly .
`` Don't you worry , Mother Page , '' she said briskly .
`` We'll be like that glorious old Roman who found a way or made it .
I like overcoming difficulties .
I've lots of old Admiral Page's fighting blood in me , you know .
The first step is to tabulate just exactly what difficulties among our many difficulties must be ravelled out first -- the capital difficulties , as it were .
Most important of all comes -- '' `` Leicester , '' said Mrs. Page .
Dorinda winked her eyes as she always did when she was doubtful .
`` Well , I knew he was one of them , but I wasn't going to put him the very first .
However , we will .
Leicester's case stands thus .
He is a pretty smart boy -- if he wasn't my brother , I 'd say he was a very smart boy .
He has gone as far in his studies as Willowdale School can take him , has qualified for entrance into the Blue Hill Academy , wants to go there this fall and begin the beginnings of a college course .
Well , of course , Mother Page , we can't send Leicester to Blue Hill any more than we can send him to the moon . ''
`` No , '' mourned Mrs. Page , `` and the poor boy feels so badly over it .
His heart is set on going to college and being a doctor like his father .
He believes he could work his way through , if he could only get a start .
But there isn't any chance .
And I can't afford to keep him at school any longer .
He is going into Mr. Churchill's store at Willow Centre in the fall .
Mr. Churchill has very kindly offered him a place .
Leicester hates the thought of it -- I know he does , although he never says so . ''
`` Next to Leicester's college course we want -- '' `` Music lessons for Jean . ''
Dorinda winked again .
`` Are music lessons for Jean really a difficulty ? ''
she said .
`` That is , one spelled with a capital ? ''
`` Oh , yes , Dorinda dear .
At least , I 'm worried over it .
Jean loves music so , and she has never had anything , poor child , not even as much school as she ought to have had .
I've had to keep her home so much to help me with the work .
She has been such a good , patient little girl too , and her heart is set on music lessons . ''
`` Well , she must have them then -- after we get Leicester's year at the academy for him .
That's two .
The third is a new -- '' `` The roof must be shingled this fall , '' said Mrs. Page anxiously .
`` It really must , Dorinda .
It is no better than a sieve .
We are nearly drowned every time it rains .
But I don't know where the money to do it is going to come from . ''
`` Shingles for the roof , three , '' said Dorinda , as if she were carefully jotting down something in a mental memorandum .
`` And fourth -- now , Mother Page , I will have my say this time -- fourthly , biggest capital of all , a Nice , New Dress and a Warm Fur Coat for Mother Page this winter .
Yes , yes , you must have them , dearest .
It's absolutely necessary .
We can wait a year or so for college courses and music lessons to grow ; we can set basins under the leaks and borrow some more if we haven't enough .
But a new dress and coat for you we must , shall , and will have , however it is to be brought about . ''
`` I wouldn't mind if I never got another new stitch , if I could only manage the other things , '' said Mrs. Page stoutly .
`` If your Uncle Eugene would only help us a little , until Leicester got through !
He really ought to .
But of course he never will . ''
`` Have you ever asked him ? ''
said Dorinda .
`` Oh , my dear , no ; of course not , '' said Mrs. Page in a horrified tone , as if Dorinda had asked if she had ever stolen a neighbour's spoons .
`` I don't see why you shouldn't , '' said Dorinda seriously .
`` Oh , Dorinda , Uncle Eugene hates us all .
He is terribly bitter against us .
He would never , never listen to any request for help , even if I could bring myself to make it . ''
`` Mother , what was the trouble between us and Uncle Eugene ?
I have never known the rights of it .
I was too small to understand when I was home before .
All I remember is that Uncle Eugene never came to see us or spoke to us when he met us anywhere , and we were all afraid of him somehow .
I used to think of him as an ogre who would come creeping up the back stairs after dark and carry me off bodily if I wasn't good .
What made him our enemy ?
And how did he come to get all of Grandfather Page's property when Father got nothing ? ''
`` Well , you know , Dorinda , that your Grandfather Page was married twice .
Eugene was his first wife's son , and your father the second wife's .
Eugene was a great deal older than your father -- he was twenty-five when your father was born .
He was always an odd man , even in his youth , and he had been much displeased at his father's second marriage .
But he was very fond of your father -- whose mother , as you know , died at his birth -- and they were good friends and comrades until just before your father went to college .
They then quarrelled ; the cause of the quarrel was insignificant ; with anyone else than Eugene a reconciliation would soon have been effected .
But Eugene never was friendly with your father from that time .
I think he was jealous of old Grandfather's affection ; thought the old man loved your father best .
And then , as I have said , he was very eccentric and stubborn .
Well , your father went away to college and graduated , and then -- we were married .
Grandfather Page was very angry with him for marrying me .
He wanted him to marry somebody else .
He told him he would disinherit him if he married me .
I did not know this until we were married .
But Grandfather Page kept his word .
He sent for a lawyer and had a new will made , leaving everything to Eugene .
I think , nay , I am sure , that he would have relented in time , but he died the very next week ; they found him dead in his bed one morning , so Eugene got everything ; and that is all there is of the story , Dorinda . ''
`` And Uncle Eugene has been our enemy ever since ? ''
`` Yes , ever since .
So you see , Dorinda dear , that I can not ask any favours of Uncle Eugene . ''
`` Yes , I see , '' said Dorinda understandingly .
To herself she added , `` But I don't see why I shouldn't . ''
Dorinda thought hard and long for the next few days about the capital difficulties .
She could think of only one thing to do and , despite old Admiral Page's fighting blood , she shrank from doing it .
But one night she found Leicester with his head down on his books and -- no , it couldn't be tears in his eyes , because Leicester laughed scornfully at the insinuation .
`` I wouldn't cry over it , Dorinda ; I hope I 'm more of a man than that .
But I do really feel rather cut up because I've no chance of getting to college .
And I hate the thought of going into a store .
But I know I must for Mother's sake , and I mean to pitch in and like it in spite of myself when the time comes .
Only -- only -- '' And then Leicester got up and whistled and went to the window and stood with his back to Dorinda .
`` That settles it , '' said Dorinda out loud , as she brushed her hair before the glass that night .
`` I'll do it . ''
`` Do what ? ''
asked Jean from the bed .
`` A desperate deed , '' said Dorinda solemnly , and that was all she would say .
Next day Mrs. Page and Leicester went to town on business .
In the afternoon Dorinda put on her best dress and hat and started out .
Admiral Page's fighting blood was glowing in her cheeks as she walked briskly up the hill road , but her heart beat in an odd fashion .
`` I wonder if I am a little scared , ` way down deep , '' said Dorinda .
`` I believe I am .
But I 'm going to do it for all that , and the scareder I get the more I'll do it . ''
Oaklawn , where Uncle Eugene lived , was two miles away .
It was a fine old place in beautiful grounds .
But Dorinda did not quail before its splendours ; nor did her heart fail her , even after she had rung the bell and had been shown by a maid into a very handsome parlour , but it still continued to beat in that queer fashion halfway up her throat .
Presently Uncle Eugene came in , a tall , black-eyed old man , with a fine head of silver hair that should have framed a ruddy , benevolent face , instead of Uncle Eugene's hard-lipped , bushy-browed countenance .
Dorinda stood up , dusky and crimson , with brave , glowing eyes .
Uncle Eugene looked at her sharply .
`` Who are you ? ''
he said bluntly .
`` I am your niece , Dorinda Page , '' said Dorinda steadily .
`` And what does my niece , Dorinda Page , want with me ? ''
demanded Uncle Eugene , motioning to her to sit down and sitting down himself .
But Dorinda remained standing .
It is easier to fight on your feet .
`` I want you to do four things , Uncle Eugene , '' she said , as calmly as if she were making the most natural and ordinary request in the world .
`` I want you to lend us the money to send Leicester to Blue Hill Academy ; he will pay it back to you when he gets through college .
I want you to lend Jean the money for music lessons ; she will pay you back when she gets far enough along to give lessons herself .
And I want you to lend me the money to shingle our house and get Mother a new dress and fur coat for the winter .
I'll pay you back sometime for that , because I am going to set up as a dressmaker pretty soon . ''
`` Anything more ? ''
said Uncle Eugene , when Dorinda stopped .
`` Nothing more just now , I think , '' said Dorinda reflectively .
`` Why don't you ask for something for yourself ? ''
said Uncle Eugene .
`` I don't want anything for myself , '' said Dorinda promptly .
`` Or -- yes , I do , too .
I want your friendship , Uncle Eugene . ''
`` Be kind enough to sit down , '' said Uncle Eugene .
Dorinda sat .
`` You are a Page , '' said Uncle Eugene .
`` I saw that as soon as I came in .
I will send Leicester to college and I shall not ask or expect to be paid back .
Jean shall have her music lessons , and a piano to practise them on as well .
The house shall be shingled , and the money for the new dress and coat shall be forthcoming .
You and I will be friends . ''
`` Thank you , '' gasped Dorinda , wondering if , after all , it wasn't a dream .
`` I would have gladly assisted your mother before , '' said Uncle Eugene , `` if she had asked me .
I had determined that she must ask me first .
I knew that half the money should have been your father's by rights .
I was prepared to hand it over to him or his family , if I were asked for it .
But I wished to humble his pride , and the Carter pride , to the point of asking for it .
Not a very amiable temper , you will say ?
I admit it .
I am not amiable and I never have been amiable .
You must be prepared to find me very unamiable .
I see that you are waiting for a chance to say something polite and pleasant on that score , but you may save yourself the trouble .
I shall hope and expect to have you visit me often .
If your mother and your brothers and sisters see fit to come with you , I shall welcome them also .
I think that this is all it is necessary to say just now .
Will you stay to tea with me this evening ? ''
Dorinda stayed to tea , since she knew that Jean was at home to attend to matters there .
She and Uncle Eugene got on famously .
When she left , Uncle Eugene , grim and hard-lipped as ever , saw her to the door .
`` Good evening , Niece Dorinda .
You are a Page and I am proud of you .
Tell your mother that many things in this life are lost through not asking for them .
I don't think you are in need of the information for yourself . ''
